.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?syr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?syr \- Performs the symmetric rank-1 update of a complex symmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall csyr\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsyr\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR is used:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR is used. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR is used.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the order of the matrix \fIa\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsyr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzsyr\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsyr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzsyr\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 + (\fIn\fR - 1)*abs(\fIincx\fR)). Before entry, the incremented array \fIx\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element vector \fBx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR. The value of \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsyr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzsyr\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the symmetric matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIa\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIlda\fR must be at least \fBmax\fR(1,\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR is overwritten by the upper triangular part of the updated matrix.
.IP
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR is overwritten by the lower triangular part of the updated matrix.
