.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?spr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?spr \- Performs the symmetrical rank-1 update of a complex symmetric packed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall cspr\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIap\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zspr\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIap\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the matrix \fIa\fR is supplied in the packed array \fIap\fR, as follows:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIa\fR is supplied in the array \fIap\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIa\fR is supplied in the array \fIap\fR .
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Specifies the order of the matrix \fIa\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcspr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzspr\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcspr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzspr\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least \fB(1\fR + (\fIn\fR - \fB1)*abs\fR(\fIincx\fR\fB))\fR. Before entry, the incremented array \fIx\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR. The value of \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcspr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzspr\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least \fB(\fR(\fIn\fR\fB*\fR(\fIn\fR + \fB1))/2)\fR. Before entry, with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the symmetric matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIA\fR\fB(1,1)\fR, \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIA\fR\fB(1,\fR\fB2)\fR and \fIA\fR\fB(2,2)\fR respectively, and so on. 
.IP
Before entry, with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIa\fR\fB(1,1)\fR, \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIa\fR\fB(2,1)\fR and \fIa\fR\fB(3,1)\fR respectively, and so on. 
.IP
Note that the imaginary parts of the diagonal elements need not be set, they are assumed to be zero, and on exit they are set to zero.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, overwritten by the upper triangular part of the updated matrix.
.IP
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, overwritten by the lower triangular part of the updated matrix.
