.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp/?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
\- Checks consistency and correctness of user\'s data as well as initializes certain data structures required to solve periodic/non-periodic Helmholtz problem on a sphere.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp\fR(\fBdouble* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(uls, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(ulc, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBdouble* \fR\fIdpar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp\fR(\fBfloat* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(uls, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(ulc, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBfloat* \fR\fIspar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR(\fBdouble* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBdouble* \fR\fIdpar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR(\fBfloat* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBfloat* \fR\fIspar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
\fBdouble*\fR for \fBd\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp/d\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR,
.IP
\fBfloat*\fR for \fBs\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp/s\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR. 
.IP
Contains the right-hand side of the problem packed in a single vector. The size of the vector is (\fBnp\fR+1)*(\fBnt\fR+1) and value of the right-hand side in the mesh point (\fIi, j\fR) is stored in \fBf\fR[\fIi+j\fR*(\fBnp\fR+1)] . 
.IP
Note that the array \fBf\fR may be altered by the routine. Please save this vector in another memory location if you want to preserve it. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBint\fR array of size 128. Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBdouble\fR array of size 5*\fBnp\fR/2+\fBnt\fR+10. Contains double-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
\fBfloat\fR array of size 5*\fBnp\fR/2+\fBnt\fR+10. Contains single-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
Vector of the right-hand side of the problem. Possibly, altered on output. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
Contains double-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
Contains single-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBhandle\(uls, handle\(ulc, handle\fR
.NL
\fBDESCIPTOR\(ulHANDLE*\fR. Data structures used by the Intel MKL FFT interface (for details, refer to FFT Functions). \fBhandle\(uls\fR and \fBhandle\(ulc\fR are used only in \fB?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp\fR and\fB handle\fR is used only in \fB?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Routine completion status, which is also written to \fBipar[0]\fR. The status should be 0 to proceed to other PL routines. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 1
.NL
The routine completed without errors and produced some warnings. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 0
.NL
The routine successfully completed the task. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -100
.NL
The routine stopped because an error in the user\'s data was found or the data in the \fBdpar\fR, \fBspar\fR or \fBipar\fR array was altered by mistake. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -1000
.NL
The routine stopped because of an Intel MKL FFT or TT interface error. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -10000
.NL
The routine stopped because the initialization failed to complete or the parameter \fBipar\fR[0] was altered by mistake. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -99999
.NL
The routine failed to complete the task because of a fatal error. 
