.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?\(ulcommit\(ultrig\(ultransform 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
\- Checks consistency and correctness of user\'s data as well as initializes certain data structures required to perform the Trigonometric Transform.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulcommit\(ultrig\(ultransform \fR(\fBdouble \fR\fIf[], \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCRIPTOR\(ulHANDLE \fR\fI*handle, \fR\fBint \fR\fIipar[], \fR\fBdouble \fR\fIdpar[], \fR\fBint \fR\fI*stat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulcommit\(ultrig\(ultransform \fR(\fBfloat \fR\fIf[], \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCRIPTOR\(ulHANDLE \fR\fI*handle, \fR\fBint \fR\fIipar[], \fR\fBfloat \fR\fIspar[], \fR\fBint \fR\fI*stat\fR)\fB;\fR
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
\fBdouble\fR for \fBd\(ulcommit\(ultrig\(ultransform\fR,
.IP
\fBfloat\fR for \fBs\(ulcommit\(ultrig\(ultransform\fR,
.IP
array of size \fBn\fR for staggered2 transforms and of size \fBn\fR+1 for all other transforms, where \fBn\fR is the size of the problem. Contains data vector to be transformed. Note that the following values should be 0.0 up to rounding errors: 
.IP
.RS
.IP \(bu
\fBf\fR[0] and \fBf\fR[\fBn\fR] for sine transforms 
.IP \(bu
\fBf\fR[\fBn\fR] for staggered cosine transforms 
.IP \(bu
\fBf\fR[0] for staggered sine transforms. 
.RE
.IP
Otherwise, the routine will produce a warning, and the result of the computations for sine transforms may be wrong. These restrictions meet the requirements of the , which the TT interface is primarily designed for.
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBint\fR array of size 128. Contains integer data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBdouble\fR array of size 5\fBn\fR/2+2. Contains double-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. The routineinitializesmost elements of this array.
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
\fBfloat\fR array of size 5\fBn\fR/2+2. Contains single-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. The routineinitializesmost elements of this array. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\fR
.NL
\fBDFTI\(ulDESCRIPTOR\(ulHANDLE*\fR. The data structure used by Intel MKL FFT interface (for details, refer to FFT Functions). 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
Contains integer data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. On output, \fBipar[6]\fR is updated with the \fBstat\fR value. 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
Contains double-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. On output, the entire array is initialized. 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
Contains single-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. On output, the entire array is initialized. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Contains the routine completion status, which is also written to \fBipar[6]\fR. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 11
.NL
The routine produced some warnings and made some changes in the parameters to achieve their correctness and/or consistency. You may proceed with computations by assigning \fBipar[6]\fR=0 if you are sure that the parameters are correct. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 10
.NL
The routine made some changes in the parameters to achieve their correctness and/or consistency. You may proceed with computations by assigning \fBipar[6]\fR=0 if you are sure that the parameters are correct. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 1
.NL
The routine produced some warnings. You may proceed with computations by assigning \fBipar[6]\fR=0 if you are sure that the parameters are correct. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 0
.NL
The routine completed the task normally. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -100
.NL
The routine stopped for any of the following reasons:
.RS
.IP \(bu
An error in the user\'s data was encountered.
.IP \(bu
Data in \fBipar\fR, \fBdpar\fR or \fBspar\fR parameters became incorrect and/or inconsistent as a result of modifications.
.RE

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -1000
.NL
The routine stopped because of an FFT interface error. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -10000
.NL
The routine stopped because the initialization failed to complete or the parameter \fBipar[0]\fR was altered by mistake. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
Although positive values of \fBstat\fR usually indicate minor problems with the input data and Trigonometric Transform computations can be continued, you are highly recommended to investigate the problem first and achieve \fBstat\fR=0. 
