.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH Uniform 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
Uniform \- Generates random numbers with uniform distribution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvsrnguniform\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR)
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvdrnguniform\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvsRngUniform\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR);
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvdRngUniform\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBmethod\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Generation method; the specific values are as follows: \fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulSUNIFORM\(ulSTD\fR
.br
\fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulDUNIFORM\(ulSTD\fR
.br
\fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulSUNIFORM\(ulSTD\(ulACCURATE\fR
.br
\fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulDUNIFORM\(ulSTD\(ulACCURATE\fR
.br
\h\'1\'Standard method.
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE (VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: Descriptor of the stream state structure.
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'Pointer to the stream state structure
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBn\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Number of random values to be generated
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBa\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBREAL\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR for \fBvsrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'1\'\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR for \fBvdrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBfloat\fR for \fBvsRngUniform\fR
.br
\h\'11\'\fBdouble\fR for \fBvdRngUniform\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Left bound \fBa\fR
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBb\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBREAL\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR for \fBvsrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'1\'\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR for \fBvdrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBfloat\fR for \fBvsRngUniform\fR
.br
\h\'11\'\fBdouble\fR for \fBvdRngUniform\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Right bound \fBb\fR
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBr\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBREAL\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR for \fBvsrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'1\'\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR for \fBvdrnguniform\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBfloat*\fR for \fBvsRngUniform\fR
.br
\h\'11\'\fBdouble*\fR for \fBvdRngUniform\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Vector of \fBn\fR random numbers uniformly distributed over the interval [\fIa\fR,\fIb\fR]
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK\fR, \fBVSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
\fBstream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\fR
.NL
\fIstream\fR is not a valid random stream.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulUPDATE\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns an invalid number of updated entries in a buffer, that is, < 0 or > \fBnmax\fR.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNO\(ulNUMBERS\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns 0 as the number of updated entries in a buffer.
