.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?copy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?copy \- Copies vector to another vector. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall scopy\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dcopy\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ccopy\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zcopy\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall copy\fR(\fIx\fR, \fIy\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Specifies the order of vectors \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBscopy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdcopy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBccopy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzcopy\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 + (\fIn\fR-1)*abs(\fIincx\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBscopy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdcopy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBccopy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzcopy\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 + (\fIn\fR-1)*abs(\fIincy\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBincy\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIy\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
Contains a copy of the vector \fIx\fR if \fIn\fR is positive. Otherwise, parameters are unaltered.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBcopy\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length(\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
