.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?dbtrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?dbtrf \- Computes an LU factorization of a general band matrix with no pivoting (local blocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sdbtrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ddbtrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cdbtrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zdbtrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm \fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR(\fIn\fR \(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of sub-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR(\fIkl\fR \(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR(\fIku\fR \(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsdbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBddbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcdbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzdbtrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The matrix \fIA\fR in band storage, in rows \fIkl\fR+1 to 2\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1; rows 1 to \fIkl\fR of the array need not be set. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the \fIj\fR-th column of the array \fIab\fR as follows: \fIab\fR(\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for max(1,\fIj\fR-\fIku\fR) \(<= \fIi\fR \(<= min(\fIm\fR,\fIj\fR+\fIkl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR. 
.IP
(\fIldab \fR\(>= 2\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR +1)
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, details of the factorization: \fIU\fR is stored as an upper triangular band matrix with \fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR superdiagonals in rows 1 to \fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1, and the multipliers used during the factorization are stored in rows \fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+2 to 2*\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0:  successful exit 
.IP
< 0: if \fIinfo\fR = - \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value, 
.IP
> 0: if \fIinfo\fR = + \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but the factor \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
