.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?disna 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?disna \- Computes the reciprocal condition numbers for the eigenvectors of a symmetric/ Hermitian matrix or for the left or right singular vectors of a general matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sdisna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIsep\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ddisna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIsep\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall disna\fR(\fId\fR, \fIsep\fR[,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIminmn\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'E\'\fR,\fB\'L\'\fR, or \fB\'R\'\fR. Specifies for which problem the reciprocal condition numbers should be computed:
.IP
\fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR: for the eigenvectors of a symmetric/Hermitian matrix;
.IP
\fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR: for the left singular vectors of a general matrix;
.IP
\fIjob\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR: for the right singular vectors of a general matrix.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, or \fB\'R\'\fR, the number of columns of the matrix (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). Ignored if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsdisna\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBddisna\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension at least max(1,\fIm\fR) if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, and at least max(1, min(\fIm,n\fR)) if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. 
.IP
This array must contain the eigenvalues (if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR) or singular values (if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR) of the matrix, in either increasing or decreasing order. 
.IP
If singular values, they must be non-negative.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBsep\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsdisna\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBddisna\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension at least max(1,\fIm\fR) if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, and at least max(1, min(\fIm,n\fR)) if \fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. The reciprocal condition numbers of the vectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBdisna\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBsep\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'E\'\fR, \fB\'L\'\fR, or \fB\'R\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'E\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBminmn\fR
.NL
Indicates which of the values \fIm\fR or \fIn\fR is smaller. Must be either \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR, the default is \fB\'M\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, this argument is superfluous, If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR, this argument is used by the routine.
