.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH djacobi\(ulsolve 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
djacobi\(ulsolve \- Computes the Jacobi matrix of the function on the basis of RCI using the central difference.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdjacobi\(ulsolve\fR(\fIhandle\fR, \fIf1\fR, \fIf2\fR, \fIRCI\(ulRequest\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdjacobi\(ulsolve\fR(\fI&handle\fR, \fIf1\fR, \fIf2\fR, \fI&RCI\(ulRequest\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\fR
.NL
Data object of the \fB\(ulJACOBIMATRIX\(ulHANDLE\(ult\fR type in C/C++ and \fBINTEGER*8\fR in FORTRAN.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf1\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of  size \fIm\fR. Contains the updated function values at \fBX\fR + \fIeps\fR.
.TP 10
\fBf2\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of  size \fIm\fR. Contains the updated function values at \fBX\fR - \fIeps\fR.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulRequest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about the task completion. When equal to 0, the task is completed succefully. 
.IP
\fBRCI\(ulRequest\fR= 1 indicates the user should  calculate the Jacobian matrix and put the result into \fBf1\fR.
.IP
\fBRCI\(ulRequest\fR= 2 indicatesthe user should  calculate the Jacobian matrix and put the result into \fBf2\fR.
.TP 10
\fBres\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about the task completion. 
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulSUCCESS\fR indicatesthat the routine has completed the task normally.
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulINVALID\(ulOPTION\fR indicatesan error in the input parameters.
