.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH djacobi 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
djacobi \- Computes the Jacobi matrix of the user\'s objective function using the cenral difference.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdjacobi\fR(\fIfcn\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIfjac\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIjac\(uleps\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdjacobi\fR(\fIfcn\fR, \fI&n\fR, \fI&m\fR, \fIfjac\fR, \fIx\fR, \fI&jac\(uleps\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBfcn\fR
.NL
User-supplied subroutine to evaluate the function that defines the least  squares problem. Call \fBfcn\fR (\fBm\fR, \fBn\fR, \fBx\fR, \fBf\fR) with the following parameters:
.IP
\fBm\fR - \fBINTEGER\fR. Input parameter. Length of \fBf\fR
.IP
\fBn\fR - \fBINTEGER\fR. Input parameter. Length of \fBx\fR.
.IP
\fBx\fR - \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Input parameter. Array of size \fBn\fR. Vector, at which the function is evaluated. The \fBfcn\fRfunction should not change this parameter.
.IP
\fBf\fR - \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Output parameter. Array of size \fBm\fR; contains the function values at \fBx\fR.
.IP
Declare \fBfcn\fR as \fBEXTERNAL\fR in the calling program.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Length of \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Length of \fIF\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of size \fBn\fR. Vector at which the function is evaluated.
.TP 10
\fBeps\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Precision of the Jacobi matrix calculation.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of size (\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR). Contains the Jacobi matrix of the function.
.TP 10
\fBres\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about the task completion. 
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulSUCCESS\fR indicatesthat the routine has completed the task normally.
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulINVALID\(ulOPTION\fR indicatesan error in the input parameters.
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulOUT\(ulOF\(ulMEMORY\fR indicatesa memory error.
