.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dss\(ulsolve\(ulreal 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dss\(ulsolve\(ulreal \- Compute the corresponding solutions vector and place it in the output array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdss\(ulsolve\(ulreal\fR(\fIhandle\fR, \fIopt\fR, \fIrRhsValues\fR, \fInRhs\fR, \fIrSolValues\fR)
.PP
\fBdss\(ulsolve\(ulcomplex\fR(\fIhandle\fR, \fIopt\fR, \fIcRhsValues\fR, \fInRhs\fR, \fIcSolValues\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\fR
.NL
Data object of the \fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulHANDLE\fR type (see Interface Description).
.TP 10
\fBopt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Options passing argument.
.TP 10
\fBnRhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of the right-hand sides in the linear equation.
.TP 10
\fBrRhsValues\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of size \fInRows\fR by \fInRhs\fR. Contains real right-hand side vectors.
.TP 10
\fBcRhsValues\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR. Array of size \fInRows\fR by \fInRhs\fR. Contains complex right-hand side vectors.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrSolValues\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. Array of size \fInCols\fR by \fInRhs\fR. Contains real solution vectors.
.TP 10
\fBcSolValues\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR. Array of size \fInCols\fR by \fInRhs\fR. Contains complex solution vectors.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulSUCCESS\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulSTATE\(ulERR\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulINVALID\(ulOPTION\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulOUT\(ulOF\(ulMEMORY\fR
