.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dss\(uldefine\(ulstructure 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dss\(uldefine\(ulstructure \- Communicates locations of non-zero elements in the matrix to the solver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdss\(uldefine\(ulstructure\fR(\fIhandle\fR, \fIopt\fR, \fIrowIndex\fR, \fInRows\fR, \fInCols\fR, \fIcolumns\fR, \fInNonZeros\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBopt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Options passing argument. The default option for the matrix structure is \fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulSYMMETRIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrowIndex\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array of size min(\fInRows\fR, \fInCols\fR)+1. Defines the location of non-zero entries in the matrix.
.TP 10
\fBnRows\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of rows in the matrix.
.TP 10
\fBnCols\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of columns in the matrix.
.TP 10
\fBcolumns\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array of size \fInNonZeros\fR. Defines the location of non-zero entries in the matrix.
.TP 10
\fBnNonZeros\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of non-zero elements in the matrix.
.PP
.B CAUTION:
Pointers to the\fBrowIndex\fR and \fBcolumns\fR are stored in the handle. These arrays are used when the solver runs. Do not free or delete them before calling \fBdss\(ulsolve\(ulreal\fR or \fBdss\(ulsolver\(ulcomplex\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\fR
.NL
Data object of the \fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulHANDLE\fR type (see Interface Description).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulSUCCESS\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulSTATE\(ulERR\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulINVALID\(ulOPTION\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulCOL\(ulERR\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulNOT\(ulSQUARE\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulTOO\(ulFEW\(ulVALUES\fR
.PP
\fBMKL\(ulDSS\(ulTOO\(ulMANY\(ulVALUES\fR
