.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dtrnlspbc\(ulinit 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dtrnlspbc\(ulinit \- Initializes the solver of nonlinear least  squares problem with linear (boundary) constraints.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdtrnlspbc\(ulinit\fR(\fIhandle\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIx\fR, \fILW\fR, \fIUP\fR, \fIeps\fR, \fIiter1\fR, \fIiter2\fR, \fIrs\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIres\fR= \fBdtrnlspbc\(ulinit\fR(\fI&handle\fR, \fI&n\fR, \fI&m\fR, \fIx\fR, \fILW\fR, \fIUP\fR, \fIeps\fR, \fI&iter1\fR, \fI&iter2\fR, \fI&rs\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Length of \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Length of \fIF\fR(\fIx\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR.  Array of size \fIn\fR. Initial guess.
.TP 10
\fBLW\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR.  Array of size \fIn\fR. 
.IP
Contains low bounds for \fIx\fR (\fIlw\fR(\fIi\fR) \(<= \fIx\fR(\fIi\fR) ).
.TP 10
\fBUP\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR.  Array of size \fIn\fR. 
.IP
Contains upper bounds for \fIx\fR (\fIup\fR(\fIi\fR) \(<= \fIx\fR(\fIi\fR) ).
.TP 10
\fBeps\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR.  Array of size 6; contains stopping tests. 
.TP 10
\fBiter1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Specifies the maximum number of iterations.
.TP 10
\fBiter2\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the maximum number of iterations of trial-step calculation.
.IP

.TP 10
\fBrs\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR.  Positive input variable used in determining the initial step bound. In most cases the factor should lie within the interval (0.1, 100.0). The generally recommended value is 100.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\fR
.NL
Data object of the \fB\(ulTRNSPBC\(ulHANDLE\(ult\fR type in C/C++ and \fBINTEGER*8\fR in FORTRAN.
.TP 10
\fBres\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about the task completion. 
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulSUCCESS\fR indicates that the routine  has completed the task normally.
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulINVALID\(ulOPTION\fR indicates an error in the input parameters.
.IP
\fBres\fR = \fBTR\(ulOUT\(ulOF\(ulMEMORY\fR indicates a memory error.
