.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?dttrsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?dttrsv \- Solves a general tridiagonal system of linear equations using the LU factorization computed by \fB?dttrf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sdttrsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ddttrsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cdttrsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zdttrsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether to solve with \fIL\fR or \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR*\fIX\fR=\fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR (no transpose).
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR (transpose).
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIX\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR (conjugate transpose).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR(\fIn\fR \(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides, that is, the number of columns in the matrix \fIB\fR(\fInrhs\fR \(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR,\fBd\fR,\fBdu\fR,\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsdttrsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBddttrsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcdttrsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzdttrsv\fR.
.IP
Arrays of \fBDIMENSION\fRs: \fIdl\fR(\fIn\fR -1 ), \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdu\fR(\fIn\fR -1 ), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,\fInrhs\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIdl\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) elements of the first super-diagonal of \fIU\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIb\fR; \fIldb \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
