.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH free\(ulsph\(ulp/free\(ulsph\(ulnp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
\- Cleans the memory allocated for the data structures used by the FFT interface.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvoid free\(ulsph\(ulp\fR(\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(uls, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(ulc, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid free\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR(\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\(uls, handle\(ulc, handle\fR
.NL
\fBDESCIPTOR\(ulHANDLE*\fR. Data structures used by the Intel MKL FFT interface (for details, refer to FFT Functions). The structures \fBhandle\(uls\fR and \fBhandle\(ulc\fR are used only in \fBfree\(ulsph\(ulp\fR,  and\fB handle\fR is used only in \fBfree\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBint\fR array of size 128. Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBhandle\(uls, handle\(ulc, handle\fR
.NL
Data structures used by the Intel MKL FFT interface. Memory allocated for the structures is released on output. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Status of the routine call is written to \fBipar[0]\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Routine completion status, which is also written to \fBipar[0]\fR. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 0
.NL
The routine successfully completed the task. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -1000
.NL
The routine stopped because of the Intel MKL FFT or TT interface error. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -99999
.NL
The routine failed to complete the task because of a fatal error. 
