.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gamn2d 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gamn2d \- Performs element-wise absolute value minimization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall igamn2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIra\fR, \fIca\fR, \fIrcflag\fR,  \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall sgamn2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIra\fR, \fIca\fR, \fIrcflag\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgamn2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIra\fR, \fIca\fR, \fIrcflag\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgamn2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIra\fR, \fIca\fR, \fIrcflag\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgamn2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIra\fR, \fIca\fR, \fIrcflag\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBicontxt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Integer handle that indicates the context.
.TP 10
\fBscope\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Indicates what scope the combine should proceed on. Limited to \fBROW\fR, \fBCOLUMN\fR, or \fBALL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtop\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Communication pattern to use during the combine operation.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of matrix rows to be combined.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of matrix columns to be combined.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBTYPE\fR array (\fBlda\fR, \fBn\fR). Matrix to be compared with to produce the minimum.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the matrix \fIA\fR,  that is, the distance between two successive elements in a matrix row.
.TP 10
\fBrcflag\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fBrcflag\fR = -1, the arrays \fIra\fR and \fIca\fR are not referenced andneed not exist. Otherwise, \fBrcflag\fR indicates the leading dimension of these arrays, and so must be \(>= \fBm\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrdest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process row coordinate of the process that should receive the result. If \fBrdest\fR or \fBcdest\fR = -1, all processes within the indicatedscope receive the answer.
.TP 10
\fBcdest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process column coordinate of the process that should receive the result. If \fBrdest\fR or \fBcdest\fR = -1, all processes within the indicatedscope receive the answer.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBTYPE\fR array (\fBlda\fR, \fBn\fR). Contains the result if this process is selected to receive the answer, or intermediate results if the process is not selected to receive the result.
.TP 10
\fBra\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR array (\fBrcflag\fR, \fBn\fR). 
.IP
If \fBrcflag\fR = -1, this array will not be referenced, and need notexist. Otherwise, it is an integer array (of size at least \fBrcflag\fR x\fBn\fR)  indicating the row index of the process that provided the minimum. If the calling process is not selected to receive the result, this array will contain intermediate (useless) results.
.TP 10
\fBca\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR array (\fBrcflag\fR, \fBn\fR). 
.IP
If \fBrcflag\fR = -1, this array will not be referenced, and need notexist. Otherwise, it is an integer array (of size at least \fBrcflag\fR x\fBn\fR)  indicating the row index of the process that provided the minimum. If the calling process is not selected to receive the result, this array will contain intermediate (useless) results.
