.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbcon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbcon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a band matrix in the 1-norm or the infinity-norm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbcon\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR[,\fIkl\fR] [,\fInorm\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR, then the routine estimates the condition number of matrix \fIA\fR in 1-norm.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then the routine estimates the condition number of matrix \fIA\fR in infinity-norm.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of subdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR. (\fIldab\fR\(>= 2*\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR +1).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?gbtrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbcon\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR,*), \fIwork\fR(*).
.IP
The array \fIab\fR contains the factored band matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?gbtrf\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR). The array \fIwork\fR is a workspace for the routine.
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1, 2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The norm of the \fIoriginal\fRmatrix \fIA\fR .
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgbcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgbcon\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number. The routine sets \fIrcond\fR =0 if the estimate underflows; in this case the matrix is singular (to working precision). However, anytime \fIrcond\fR is small compared to 1.0, for the working precision, the matrix may be poorly conditioned or even singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbcon\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (2*\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'1\'\fR, \fB\'O\'\fR, or \fB\'I\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'1\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIku\fR = \fIlda\fR-2*\fIkl\fR-1.
