.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbequ 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbequ \- Computes row and column scaling factors intended to equilibrate a band matrix and reduce its condition number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbequ\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIrowcnd\fR, \fIcolcnd\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbequ\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIrowcnd\fR, \fIcolcnd\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbequ\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIrowcnd\fR, \fIcolcnd\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbequ\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIrowcnd\fR, \fIcolcnd\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbequ\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIc\fR[,\fIkl\fR] [,\fIrowcnd\fR] [,\fIcolcnd\fR] [,\fIamax\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIm\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of subdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbequ\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbequ\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldab\fR,*). 
.IP
Contains the original band matrix \fIA\fR stored in rows from 1 to \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR + 1.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR); 
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIab\fR; \fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBr\fR, \fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIr\fR(\fIm\fR), \fIc\fR(\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, or \fIinfo\fR>\fIm\fR, the array \fIr\fR contains the row scale factors of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 , the array \fIc\fR contains the column scale factors of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrowcnd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 or \fIinfo\fR>\fIm\fR, \fIrowcnd\fR contains the ratio of the smallest \fIr\fR(i) to the largest \fIr\fR(i).  
.TP 10
\fBcolcnd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIcolcnd\fR contains the ratio of the smallest \fIc\fR(i) to the largest \fIc\fR(i).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Absolute value of the largest element of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR and
.IP
\fIi\fR\(<=\fIm\fR, the \fIi\fR-th row of \fIA\fR is exactly zero;
.IP
\fIi\fR>\fIm\fR, the (\fIi\fR-\fIm\fR)th column of \fIA\fR is exactly zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbequ\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIku\fR = \fIlda\fR-\fIkl\fR-1.
