.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbrfs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbrfs \- Refines the solution of a system of linear equations with a general band matrix and estimates its error.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIafb\fR, \fIldafb\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIafb\fR, \fIldafb\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIafb\fR, \fIldafb\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIafb\fR, \fIldafb\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbrfs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIkl\fR] [,\fItrans\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, the system has the form  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of sub-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of super-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR,\fBafb\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbrfs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbrfs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR,*) contains the original band matrix \fIA\fR, as supplied to \fB?gbtrf\fR, but stored in rows from 1 to \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR + 1.
.IP
\fIafb\fR(\fIldafb\fR,*) contains the factored band matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?gbtrf\fR.
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR.
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR,*) contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR and \fIafb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR); the second dimension of \fIb\fR and \fIx\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR); the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1, 2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIab\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldafb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIafb\fR .
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?gbtrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgbrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgbrfs.\fR
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
The refined solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR =0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbrfs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIafb\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIAF\fR of size (2*\fIkl\fR*\fBku\fR+1,\fBn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI nrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIku\fR = \fIlda\fR-\fIkl\fR-1.
