.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbsv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a band matrix A and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbsv\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIkl\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR. The number of rows in \fIB\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of subdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides. The number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbsv\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR,*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The array \fIab\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR in band storage (see Matrix Storage Schemes). The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR. (\fIldab\fR\(>= 2\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR +1)
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
Overwritten by \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR. The diagonal and \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR superdiagonals of \fIU\fR are stored in the first 1 + \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR rows of \fIab\fR. The multipliers used to form \fIL\fR are stored in the next \fIkl\fR rows.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The pivot indices: row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIU\fR(\fIi\fR, \fIi\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization has been completed, but the factor \fIU\fR is exactly singular, so the solution could not be computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbsv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (2*\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIku\fR = \fIlda\fR-2*\fIkl\fR-1.
