.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbtf2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbtf2 \- Computes the LU factorization of a general band matrix using the unblocked version of the algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgbtf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbtf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbtf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbtf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of sub-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR (\fIkl\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR (\fIku\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbtf2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbtf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbtf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgbtf2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIab\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR in band storage (see Matrix Arguments). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR. 
.IP
(\fIldab\fR\(>= 2\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR +1)
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
Overwritten by details of the factorization. The diagonal and \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR super-diagonals of \fIU\fR are stored in the first 1 + \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR rows of \fIab\fR. The multipliers used during the factorization are stored in the next \fIkl\fR rows.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR)). 
.IP
The pivot indices: row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR =0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
