.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbtrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with an LU-factored band matrix, with multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbtrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbtrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbtrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbtrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbtrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIipiv\fR,  [, \fIkl\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [, \fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; the number of rows in \fIB\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of subdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbtrs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR,*),\fI b\fR(\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIab\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR), and the second dimension of \fIb\fR at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR; \fIldab\fR\(>= 2*\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR +1.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?gbtrf\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbtrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (2*\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI nrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm\fR,\fI n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIlda\fR-2*\fIkl\fR-1.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
