.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gbtrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gbtrf \- Computes the LU factorization of a general \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgbtrf\fR( \fI m\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgbtrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo \fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgbtrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgbtrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo \fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gbtrf\fR( \fI a\fR[,\fIkl\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of rows in matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of columns in matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of subdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIkl\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals within the band of \fIA\fR; \fIku\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgbtrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldab\fR,*). The array \fIab\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR in band storage (see Matrix Storage Schemes). The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR. (\fIldab\fR\(>= 2*\fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR + 1)
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
Overwritten by \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR. The diagonal and \fIkl\fR + \fIku\fR superdiagonals of \fIU\fR are stored in the first 1+\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR rows of \fIab\fR. The multipliers used to form \fIL\fR are stored in the next \fIkl\fR rows.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). The pivot indices: row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR)is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgbtrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size  (2*\fIkl\fR+\fIku\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIkl\fR = \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
Restored as \fIku\fR = \fIlda\fR-2*\fIkl\fR-1.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
If omitted, assumed \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR.
