.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gebak 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gebak \- Transforms eigenvectors of a balanced matrix to those of the original nonsymmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgebak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgebak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgebak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgebak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gebak\fR(\fIv\fR, \fIscale\fR[,\fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIside\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'P\'\fR or \fB\'S\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR. The same parameter \fIjob\fR as supplied to \fB?gebal\fR.
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR , then left eigenvectors are transformed. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, then right eigenvectors are transformed.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix of eigenvectors \fI\fR(\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The values \fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR, as returned by \fB?gebal\fR. (If \fIn\fR > 0, then 1 \(<=\fIilo\fR\(<=\fIihi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR; 
.IP
if \fIn\fR = 0, then \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = 0.)
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
Contains details of the permutations and/or the scaling factors used to balance the original general matrix, as returned by \fB?gebal\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix of eigenvectors \fI\fR(\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgebak\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgebak\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgebak\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgebak\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIv\fR (\fIldv\fR,*) contains the matrix of left or right eigenvectors to be transformed. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIv\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIv\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the transformed eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgebak\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIV\fR of size (\fIn,m\fR).
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIilo\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBihi\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'B\'\fR, \fB\'S\'\fR, \fB\'P\'\fR, or \fB\'N\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'B\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'L\'\fR.
