.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gebd2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gebd2 \- Reduces a general matrix to bidiagonal form using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgebd2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgebd2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgebd2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgebd2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgebd2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR general matrix \fIA\fR to be reduced. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fI*\fR) is a workspace array, the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the diagonal and first super-diagonal of \fIa\fR are overwritten with the upper bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR. Elements below the diagonal, with the array \fItauq\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors, and elements above the first superdiagonal, with the array \fItaup\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIp\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.IP
if \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, the diagonal and first sub-diagonal of \fIa\fR are overwritten by the lower bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR. Elements below the first subdiagonal, with the array \fItauq\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors, and elements above the diagonal, with the array \fItaup\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIp\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains the diagonal elements of the bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR: \fId\fR(i) = \fIa\fR(i, i).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR) - 1). 
.IP
Contains the off-diagonal elements of the bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR:
.IP
if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, \fIe\fR(i) = \fIa\fR(i, i+1) for i = 1,2,..., \fIn\fR-1; 
.IP
if \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, \fIe\fR(i) = \fIa\fR(i+1, i) for i = 1,2,..., \fIm\fR-1.
.TP 10
\fBtauq\fR, \fBtaup\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgebd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgebd2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contain scalar factors of the elementary reflectors which represent orthogonal/unitary matrices \fIQ\fR and \fIp\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
