.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gebrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gebrd \- Reduces a general matrix to bidiagonal form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgebrd\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgebrd\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgebrd\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgebrd\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gebrd\fR(\fIa\fR[, \fId\fR] [,\fIe\fR] [,\fItauq\fR] [,\fItaup\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgebrd\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
If \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the diagonal and first super-diagonal of \fIa\fR are overwritten by the upper bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR. Elements below the diagonal are overwritten by details of \fIQ\fR, and the remaining elements are overwritten by details of \fIP\fR.
.IP
If \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, the diagonal and first sub-diagonal of \fIa\fR are overwritten by the lower bidiagonal matrix \fIB\fR. Elements above the diagonal are overwritten by details of \fIP\fR, and the remaining elements are overwritten by details of \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains the diagonal elements of \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR) - 1). Contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtauq\fR, \fBtaup\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgebrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgebrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). Contain further details of the matrices \fIQ\fR and \fIP\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgebrd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR)-1.
.TP 10
\fBtauq\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtaup\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
