.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gegss 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gegss \- Solves a system of interval linear equations by interval Gauss-Seidel iteration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcrgegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzrgegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBccgegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzcgegss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIencl\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, \fB\'t\'\fR, or \fB\'c\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations system:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\fR\fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR \(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides (\fInrhs \fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsigegss\fR.
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBdigegss\fR.
.IP
\fBCR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcrgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBZR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzrgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBCC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBccgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBZC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzcgegss\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR (\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR, whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of b, \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBencl\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsigegss\fR.
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBdigegss\fR.
.IP
\fBCR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcrgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBZR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzrgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBCC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBccgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBZC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzcgegss\fR.
.IP
Array: \fIencl\fR (\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIencl\fR defines the interval box bounding the portion of the solution set that the routine estimates.
.TP 10
\fBepsilon\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigegss\fR, \fBcrgegss\fR, and \fBccgegss\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigegss\fR, \fBzrgegss\fR, and \fBzcgegss\fR.
.IP
The prescribed accuracy of the esimate.
.TP 10
\fBnits\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of Gauss-Seidel iterations alloted, \fInits\fR\(>= 0.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by an enclosure of the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR= \fIi\fR \(>= 0, then the diagonal element \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) of the matrix contains zero. The execution of the routine did not fail, but it is recommended to interchange the rows and/or columns of the matrix so as to exclude zero-containing elements from its main diagonal.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-\fR\fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
