.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gehd2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gehd2 \- Reduces a general square matrix to upper Hessenberg form using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgehd2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgehd2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgehd2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgehd2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. It is assumed that \fIA\fR is already upper triangular in rows and columns 1:\fIilo\fR -1 and \fIihi\fR+1:\fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIA\fR has been output by \fB?gebal\fR, then 
.IP
\fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR must contain the values returned by that routine. Otherwise they should be set to \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR. Constraint: 1 \(<= \fIilo\fR \(<= \fIihi\fR \(<= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgehd2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR to be reduced. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR (\fIn\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the upper triangle and the first subdiagonal of \fIA\fR are overwritten with the upper Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR and the elements below the first subdiagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors. 
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgehd2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgehd2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR-1). 
.IP
Contains the scalar factors of elementary reflectors. See \fIApplication Notes\fRbelow.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
