.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gehrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gehrd \- Reduces a general matrix to upper Hessenberg form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgehrd\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgehrd\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgehrd\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgehrd\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gehrd\fR(\fIa\fR[, \fItau\fR] [,\fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIA\fR is an output by \fB?gebal\fR, then \fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR must contain the values returned by that routine. Otherwise \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR. (If \fIn\fR > \fI0\fR, then 1 \(<=\fIilo\fR\(<=\fIihi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR; if \fIn\fR = 0, \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = 0.)
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgehrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR (\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the upper Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR and details of the matrix \fIQ\fR. The subdiagonal elements of \fIH\fR are real.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgehrd\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR-1). 
.IP
Contains additional information on the matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR , the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgehrd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIilo\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBihi\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR.
