.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gehss 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gehss \- Solves a system of interval linear equations by interval Householder method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigehss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigehss\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, \fB\'t\'\fR, or \fB\'c\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations system:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fI\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for X.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fRor \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fBn\fR \(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides (\fBnrhs\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigehss\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigehss\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR (\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR, whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR) and the second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of b, \fIldb\fR \(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by an enclosure of the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
