.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gekws 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gekws \- Solves a system of interval linear equations by Krawczyk iteration method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcrgekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzrgekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBccgekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzcgekws\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, \fB\'t\'\fR, or \fB\'c\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations system:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA*X\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\fR\fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fBn\fR \(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides (\fBnrhs\fR \(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsigekws\fR.
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBdigekws\fR.
.IP
\fBCR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcrgekws\fR.
.IP
\fBZR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzrgekws\fR.
.IP
\fBCC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBccgekws\fR.
.IP
\fBZC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzcgekws\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR (\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR, whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR \(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of b, \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBepsilon\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigekws\fR, \fBcrgekws\fR, and \fBccgekws\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigekws\fR, \fBzrgekws\fR, and \fBzcgekws\fR.
.IP
The prescribed accuracy of the estimate.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by an enclosure of the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
