.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gelq2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gelq2 \- Computes the LQ factorization of a general rectangular matrix using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgelq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgelq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgelq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgelq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgelq2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIm\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
on exit, the elements on and below the diagonal of the array \fIa\fR contain the \fIm\fR-by-min(\fIn\fR,\fIm\fR) lower trapezoidal matrix \fIL\fR (\fIL\fR is lower triangular if \fIn\fR\(>=\fIm\fR); the elements above the diagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of min(\fIn\fR,\fIm\fR) elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgelq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgelq2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
