.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gels 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gels \- Uses QR or LQ factorization to solve a overdetermined or underdetermined linear system with full rank matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgels\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgels\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgels\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgels\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gels\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fItrans\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, or \fB\'C\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the linear system involves matrix \fIA\fR;
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, the linear system involves the transposed matrix \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR (for real flavors only);
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, the linear system involves the conjugate-transposed matrix \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR (for complex flavors only).
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; the number of columns in \fIB\fR (\fInrhs\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgels\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgels\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgels\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgels\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIB\fR of right hand side vectors, stored columnwise; \fIB\fR is \fIm\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , or \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; must be at least min (\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)+max(1, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, array \fIa\fR contains the details of the \fIQR\fR factorization of the matrix \fIA\fR as returned by \fB?geqrf\fR;	
.IP
if \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, array \fIa\fR contains the details of the \fILQ\fR factorization of the matrix \fIA\fR as returned by \fB?gelqf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fBb\fR overwritten by the solution vectors, stored columnwise:
.IP
if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, rows 1 to \fIn\fR of \fIb\fR contain the least squares solution vectors; the residual sum of squares for the solution in each column is given by the sum of squares of modulus of elements \fIn\fR+1 to \fIm\fR in that column; 
.IP
if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, rows 1 to \fIn\fR of \fIb\fR contain the minimum norm solution vectors; 
.IP
if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR and \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, rows 1 to \fIm\fR of \fIb\fR contain the minimum norm solution vectors; if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR and \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, rows 1 to \fIm\fR of \fIb\fR contain the least squares solution vectors; the residual sum of squares for the solution in each column is given by the sum of squares of modulus of elements \fIm\fR+1 to \fIn\fR in that column.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi-\fRth diagonal element of the triangular factor of \fIA\fR is zero, so that \fIA\fR does not have full rank; the least squares solution could not be computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgels\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix of size max(\fIm,n\fR)-by-\fInrhs\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then, on entry, the size of \fIb\fR is \fIm\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR, 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then, on entry, the size of \fIb\fR is \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR,
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
