.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gelsy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gelsy \- Computes the minimum-norm solution to a linear least squares problem using a complete orthogonal factorization of A.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgelsy\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIrank\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgelsy\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIrank\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgelsy\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIrank\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgelsy\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIrank\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gelsy\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIrank\fR] [,\fIjpvt\fR] [,\fIrcond\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; the number of columns in \fIB\fR (\fInrhs\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgelsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgelsy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgelsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgelsy\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR right hand side matrix \fIB\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR)\(!= 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is permuted to the front of \fIAP\fR, otherwise the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is a free column. 
.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors.
.IP
\fIrcond\fR is used to determine the effective rank of \fIA\fR, which is defined as the order of the largest leading triangular submatrix \fIR\fR11 in the \fIQR\fR factorization with pivoting of \fIA\fR, whose estimated condition number < 1/\fIrcond\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array. 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgelsy DOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgelsy\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 2\fIn\fR). Used in complex flavors only.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, overwritten by the details of the complete orthogonal factorization of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR)= \fIk\fR, then the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIAP\fR was the \fIk\fR-th column of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrank\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The effective rank of \fIA\fR, that is, the order of the submatrix \fIR\fR11. This is the same as the order of the submatrix \fIT\fR11 in the complete orthogonal factorization of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.TP 10
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgelsy\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix of size max(\fIm,n\fR)-by-\fInrhs\fR. On entry, contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR right hand side matrix \fIB\fR, On exit, overwritten by the \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR). Default value for this element is \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) = 0.
.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIrcond\fR = 100*\fBEPSILON\fR(\fB1.0\(ulWP\fR).
