.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH Geometric 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
Geometric \- Generates geometrically distributed random values.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvirnggeometric\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIp\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBviRngGeometric\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIp\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBmethod\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Generation method. The specific value is as follows: 
.br
\fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulIGEOMETRIC\(ulICDF\fR
.br
.br
\h\'1\'Inverse cumulative distribution function method.
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE (VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: Descriptor of the stream state structure.
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'Pointer to the stream state structure
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBn\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Number of random values to be generated
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBp\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBdouble\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Success probability \fIp\fR of a trial
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBr\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Vector of \fIn\fR geometrically distributed random values
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK\fR, \fBVSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
\fBstream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\fR
.NL
\fIstream\fR is not a valid random stream.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulUPDATE\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns an invalid number of updated entries in a buffer, that is, < 0 or > \fBnmax\fR.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNO\(ulNUMBERS\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns 0 as the number of updated entries in a buffer.
