.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gepps 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gepps \- Solves a system of interval linear equations by a parameter partitioning method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigepps\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIcmpt\fR, \fImode\fR, \fIestm\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigepps\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIcmpt\fR, \fImode\fR, \fIestm\fR, \fIepsilon\fR, \fInits\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, \fB\'t\'\fR, or \fB\'c\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations system:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA*X\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for X.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fRor \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fIn \fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigepps\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigepps\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR (\fIldb\fR).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the vector \fIB\fR of the right-hand sides for the system of equations.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR, \fIldb \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBcmpt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of the component of the solution set to be estimated.
.TP 10
\fBmode\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be either \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR(or the corresponding lowercase letters).
.IP
Indicates how to estimate the solution set along the coordinate direction specified by the parameter \fIcmpt\fR:
.IP
if \fImode\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the routine computes the lower estimate of the solution set over the \fIcmpt\fR-th coordinate;
.IP
if \fImode\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the routine computes the upper estimate of the solution set over the \fIcmpt\fR-th coordinate.
.TP 10
\fBepsilon\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigepps\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigepps\fR.
.IP
The prescribed accuracy of the estimate.
.TP 10
\fBnits\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of iterations of the PPS algorithm alloted, \fInits \fR\(>= 0.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBestm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigepps\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigepps\fR.
.IP
Estimate of the solution set along the coordinate axis with the number \fIcmpt\fR. if \fImode\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIestm\fR represents the lower estimate of the solution set. if \fImode\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIestm\fR is equal to the upper estimate of the solution set.
.TP 10
\fBepsilon\fR
.NL
The actual precision of the estimate.
.TP 10
\fBnits\fR
.NL
The number of iterations that the algorithm actually executed.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
