.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?geql2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?geql2 \- Computes the QL factorization of a general rectangular matrix using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgeql2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgeql2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgeql2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgeql2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgeql2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIm\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
on exit, if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the lower triangle of the subarray \fIa\fR(\fIm\fR-\fIn\fR+1:\fIm\fR, 1:\fIn\fR) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular matrix \fIL\fR; if \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, the elements on and below the (\fIn\fR-\fIm\fR)th superdiagonal contain the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower trapezoidal matrix \fIL\fR; the remaining elements, with the array\fI tau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgeql2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
