.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?geqpf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?geqpf \- Computes the QR factorization of a general m-by-n matrix with pivoting.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgeqpf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgeqpf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgeqpf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgeqpf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall geqpf\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIjpvt\fR[,\fItau\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgeqpf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR (\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array. The size of the \fIwork\fR array must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and at least max(1, \fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) > 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is moved to the beginning of \fIA*P\fR before the computation, and fixed in place during the computation. 
.IP
If \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) = 0, the \fIi\fRth column of \fIA\fR is a free column (that is, it may be interchanged during the computation with any other free column).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgeqpf\fR. 
.IP
A workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
If \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the elements below the diagonal are overwritten by the details of the unitary (orthogonal) matrix \fIQ\fR, and the upper triangle is overwritten by the corresponding elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR.
.IP
If \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, the strictly lower triangular part is overwritten by the details of the matrix \fIQ\fR, and the remaining elements are overwritten by the corresponding elements of the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqpf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgeqpf\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). Contains additional information on the matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
Overwritten by details of the permutation matrix \fIP\fR in the factorization \fIA*P\fR = \fIQ*R\fR. More precisely, the columns of \fIA*P\fR are the columns of \fIA\fR in the following order:
.IP
\fIjpvt\fR(1), \fIjpvt\fR(2), ..., \fIjpvt\fR(\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgeqpf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR)
