.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?geqp3 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?geqp3 \- Computes the QR factorization of a general m-by-n matrix with column pivoting using level 3 BLAS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgeqp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgeqp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgeqp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgeqp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall geqp3\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIjpvt\fR[,\fItau\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgeqp3\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR+1) for real flavors, and at least max(1, \fIn\fR+1) for complex flavors. 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) \(!= 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is moved to the beginning of \fIAP\fR before the computation, and fixed in place during the computation. 
.IP
If \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) = 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is a free column (that is, it may be interchanged during the computation with any other free column).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgeqp3\fR. 
.IP
A workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR). Used in complex flavors only.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
If \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the elements below the diagonal are overwritten by the details of the unitary (orthogonal) matrix \fIQ\fR, and the upper triangle is overwritten by the corresponding elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR.
.IP
If \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, the strictly lower triangular part is overwritten by the details of the matrix \fIQ\fR, and the remaining elements are overwritten by the corresponding elements of the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgeqp3\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors for the matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
Overwritten by details of the permutation matrix \fIP\fR in the factorization \fIA*P\fR = \fIQ*R\fR. More precisely, the columns of \fIAP\fR are the columns of \fIA\fR in the following order:
.IP
\fIjpvt\fR(1), \fIjpvt\fR(2), ..., \fIjpvt\fR(\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgeqp3\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR)
