.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?geqr2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?geqr2 \- Computes the QR factorization of a general rectangular matrix using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgeqr2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgeqr2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgeqr2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgeqr2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgeqr2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIn\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
on exit, the elements on and above the diagonal of the array \fIa\fR contain the min(\fIn\fR,\fIm\fR)-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR (\fIR\fR is upper triangular if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR); the elements below the diagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgeqr2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgeqr2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
