.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gerbr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gerbr \- Tests regularity of an interval matrix by Ris-Beeck and Rex-Rohn criteria.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigerbr\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIsr\fR, \fIreg\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigerbr\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIsr\fR, \fIreg\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn \fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigerbr\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigerbr\fR.
.IP
Array: \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,*).
.IP
Contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBsr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigerbr\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigerbr\fR.
.IP
An upper estimate of the spectral radius of the matrix (inv(|(mid \fIA\fR))| . rad \fIA\fR). 
.IP
This is an additional information about the matrix \fIA\fR, which is crucial for the so-called strong regularity of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBreg\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Displays the results of the singularity test.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR \(>= 0, then \fIA\fR is regular.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR < 0, then \fIA\fR is singular.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR = 0, then the result is undetermined, that is, the test was not sufficiently sensitive to detect whether the matrix \fIA\fR is regular or singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
