.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gerqf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gerqf \- Computes the RQ factorization of a general m-by-n matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgerqf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgerqf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgerqf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgerqf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gerqf\fR(\fIa\fR[, \fItau\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgerqf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array;
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten on exit by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
if \fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, the upper triangle of the subarray 
.IP
\fIa\fR(1:\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR-\fIm\fR+1:\fIn\fR ) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR; 
.IP
if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, the elements on and above the (\fIm\fR-\fIn\fR)th subdiagonal contain the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR;
.IP
in both cases, the remaining elements, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR) elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgerqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgerqf\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors for the matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgerqf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
