.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gerq2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gerq2 \- Computes the RQ factorization of a general rectangular matrix using an unblocked algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgerq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgerq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgerq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgerq2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgerq2\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIm\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
on exit, if \fIm\fR \(<= \fIn\fR, the upper triangle of the subarray \fIa\fR(1:\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR-\fIm\fR+1:\fIn\fR ) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR; if \fIm\fR > \fIn\fR, the elements on and above the (\fIm\fR-\fIn\fR)-th subdiagonal contain the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR; the remaining elements, with the array\fI tau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgerq2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgerq2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
