.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gesvr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gesvr \- Tests regularity/singularity of an interval matrix by Rump and Rex-Rohn singular value criteria.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsigesvr\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fImsr\fR, \fIrsr\fR, \fIreg\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBdigesvr\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fImsr\fR, \fIrsr\fR, \fIreg\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn \fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsigesvr\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdigesvr\fR.
.IP
Array: \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,*).
.IP
Contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBmsr\fR, \fBrsr\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsigesvr\fR. 
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBdigesvr\fR. 
.IP
Additional information about the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The intervals represent the ranges of the singular spectra of the midpoint matrix and radius matrix, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBreg\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Displays results of the singularity test.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR \(>= 0, then \fIA\fR is regular.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR < 0, then \fIA\fR is singular.
.IP
If \fIreg\fR = 0, then the result is undetermined, that is, the test was not sufficiently sensitive to detect whether the matrix \fIA\fR is regular or singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
.PP
To test regularity of the interval matrix 
.PP
by singular value criteria, the following piece of Fortran 90 code may be helpful:
.PP
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
.br
. . . . . .
.br
.br
USE INTERVAL\(ulARITHMETIC
.br
. . . . . .
.br
INTEGER, PARAMETER          :: LDA = 2, N = 2
.br
TYPE(D\(ulINTERVAL)          :: A(LDA,N), MSR, RSR
.br
INTEGER          :: REG, INFO
.br
. . . . . .
.br
A(1,1) = DINTERVAL(2.,4.);  A(1,2) = DINTERVAL(-2.,1.)
.br
A(2,1) = DINTERVAL(-1.,2.); A(2,2) = DINTERVAL(2.,4.)
.br
. . . . . .
.br
CALL DIGESVR( N, A, LDA, MSR, RSR, REG, INFO )
.PP
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PP
Mutual disposition of the intervals \fBMSR\fR and \fBRSR\fR on the real axis can serve to some extent as a measure of how large the regularity margin is (in case of \fBMSR\fR \(>= \fBRSR\fR), or how far the matrix is from the regular ones (in case of \fBMSR\fR < \fBRSR\fR).
