.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?getf2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?getf2 \- Computes the LU factorization of a general m-by-n matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges (unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sgetf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgetf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgetf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgetf2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzgetf2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,*). Contains the matrix \fIA\fR to be factored. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR. The unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored. 
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR)). 
.IP
The pivot indices: for 1 \(<= i \(<= \fIn\fR , row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR >0, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
