.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?getrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?getrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with an LU-factored square matrix, with multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgetrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgetrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgetrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgetrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall getrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR[, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; the number of rows in \fIB\fR(\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgetrs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains \fILU\fR factorization of matrix \fIA\fR resulting from the call of \fB?getrf\fR . 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR), the second dimension of \fIb\fR at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?getrf\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgetrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI nrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
