.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?getri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?getri \- Computes the inverse of an LU-factored general matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgetri\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgetri\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgetri\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgetri\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall getri\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIipiv\fR[,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgetri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgetri\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgetri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgetri\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*), \fIwork\fR(*).
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the factorization of the matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?getrf\fR: \fIA\fR = \fIP*L*U\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array of dimension at least max(1,\fIlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?getrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the \fIwork\fR array; \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix inv(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of the factor \fIU\fR is zero, \fIU\fR is singular, and the inversion could not be completed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgetri\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
