.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?getrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?getrf \- Computes the LU factorization of a general m-by-n matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgetrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgetrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgetrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgetrf\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall getrf\fR( \fIa\fR[,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of columns in \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgetrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR,*). Contains the matrix \fIA\fR. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of array \fIa\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR. The unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored. 
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,min(\fIm\fR, \fBn\fR)). The pivot indices: row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.  
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgetrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size  (\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
