.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ggbak 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ggbak \- Forms the right or left eigenvectors of a generalized eigenvalue problem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sggbak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dggbak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cggbak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zggbak\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIside\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIldv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ggbak\fR(\fIv\fR[, \fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIlscale\fR] [,\fIrscale\fR] [,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the type of backward transformation required. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'P\'\fR, \fB\'S\'\fR, or \fB\'B\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then no operations are done; return. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, then do backward transformation for permutation only. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, then do backward transformation for scaling only. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, then do backward transformation for both permutation and scaling. This argument must be the same as the argument \fIjob\fR supplied to \fB?ggbal\fR.
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR , then \fIv\fR contains left eigenvectors. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR , then \fIv\fR contains right eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIV\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The integers \fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR determined by \fB?gebal\fR. Constraint: 
.IP
If \fIn\fR > 0, then 1 \(<=\fIilo\fR\(<=\fIihi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR; 
.IP
if \fIn\fR = 0, then \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = 0.
.TP 10
\fBlscale\fR, \fBrscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
The array \fIlscale\fR contains details of the permutations and/or scaling factors applied to the left side of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR, as returned by \fB?ggbal\fR.
.IP
The array \fIrscale\fR contains details of the permutations and/or scaling factors applied to the right side of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR, as returned by \fB?ggbal\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIV\fR
.IP
(\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggbak\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggbak\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggbak\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggbak\fR. 
.IP
Array \fIv\fR(\fIldv\fR,*). Contains the matrix of right or left eigenvectors to be transformed, as returned by \fB?tgevc\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIv\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIv\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the transformed eigenvectors
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR\fI\fR, the \fIi\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBggbak\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIV\fR of size (\fIn,m\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlscale\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrscale\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIilo\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBihi\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'B\'\fR, \fB\'S\'\fR, \fB\'P\'\fR, or \fB\'N\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'B\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
If omitted, this argument is restored based on the presence of arguments \fIlscale\fR and \fIrscale\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, if \fIlscale\fR is present and \fIrscale\fR omitted, 
.IP
\fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, if \fIlscale\fR is omitted and \fIrscale\fR present. 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if both \fIlscale\fR and \fIrscale\fR are present or if they both are omitted.
