.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ggbal 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ggbal \- Balances a pair of general real or complex matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sggbal\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dggbal\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cggbal\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zggbal\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIlscale\fR, \fIrscale\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ggbal\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIlscale\fR] [,\fIrscale\fR] [,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the operations to be performed on \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'P\'\fR or \fB\'S\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then no operations are done; simply set \fIilo\fR =1, \fIihi\fR=\fIn\fR, \fIlscale\fR(i) =1.0 and \fIrscale\fR(i)=1.0 for 
.IP
i = 1,..., \fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, then permute only. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, then scale only. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, then both permute and scale.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggbal\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggbal\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggbal\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggbal\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIB\fR. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 6\fIn\fR) when  \fIjob\fR = \fB\'S\'\fRor \fB\'B\'\fR, or at least 1 when  \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fRor \fB\'P\'\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the balanced matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR, respectively. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIa\fR and \fIb\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. \fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR are set to integers such that on exit \fIa\fR(\fIi,j\fR)=0 and \fIb\fR(\fIi,j)\fR=0 if \fIi\fR>\fIj\fR and \fIj\fR=1,...,\fIilo\fR-1 or \fIi\fR=\fIihi\fR+1,..., \fIn\fR.
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fRor \fB\'S\'\fR, then \fIilo\fR = 1 and \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlscale\fR, \fBrscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIlscale\fR contains details of the permutations and scaling factors applied to the left side of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR. 
.IP
If \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR) is the index of the row interchanged with row \fIj\fR, and \fID\fR(\fIj\fR) is the scaling factor applied to row \fIj\fR, then
.IP
\fIlscale\fR(\fIj\fR) = \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = 1,..., \fIilo\fR-1
.IP
= \fID\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = \fIilo\fR,...,\fIihi\fR
.IP
= \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = \fIihi\fR+1,..., \fIn\fR.
.IP
\fIrscale\fR contains details of the permutations and scaling factors applied to the right side of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR. 
.IP
If \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR) is the index of the column interchanged with column \fIj\fR, and \fID\fR(\fIj\fR) is the scaling factor applied to column \fIj\fR, then
.IP
\fIrscale\fR(\fIj\fR) = \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = 1,..., \fIilo\fR-1
.IP
= \fID\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = \fIilo\fR,...,\fIihi\fR
.IP
= \fIP\fR(\fIj\fR), for \fIj\fR = \fIihi\fR+1,..., \fIn\fR
.IP
The order in which the interchanges are made is \fIn\fR to \fIihi\fR+1, then 1 to \fIilo\fR-1.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBggbal\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlscale\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrscale\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIilo\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBihi\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'B\'\fR, \fB\'S\'\fR, \fB\'P\'\fR, or \fB\'N\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'B\'\fR.
