.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ggglm 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ggglm \- Solves a general Gauss-Markov linear model problem using a generalized QR factorization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sggglm\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fId\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dggglm\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fId\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cggglm\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fId\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zggglm\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fId\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ggglm\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fId\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR[,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBp\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIB\fR (\fIp\fR\(>=\fIn\fR - \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggglm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggglm\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggglm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggglm\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIm\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIp\fR matrix \fIB\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIp\fR).
.IP
\fId\fR(*), dimension at least max(1, \fIn\fR), contains the left hand side of the GLM equation. 
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; \fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR+\fIm\fR+\fIp\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR, \fBy\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggglm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggglm\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggglm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggglm\fR.	
.IP
Arrays \fIx\fR(*), \fIy\fR(*). \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIm\fR) for \fIx\fR and at least max(1, \fIp\fR) for \fIy\fR. 
.IP
On exit, \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR are the solutions of the GLM problem.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the upper triangular part of the array \fBa\fR contains the \fBm\fR-by-\fBm\fR upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fBn\fR \(<= \fBp\fR, the upper triangle of the subarray \fBb\fR(1:\fBn\fR,\fBp\fR-\fBn\fR+1:\fBp\fR) contains the \fBn\fR-by-\fBn\fR upper triangular matrix \fIT\fR; if \fBn\fR > \fBp\fR, the elements on and above the (\fBn\fR-\fBp\fR)-th subdiagonal contain the \fBn\fR-by-\fBp\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On exit, \fBd\fR is destroyed
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 1, the upper triangular factor \fIR\fR associated with \fIA\fR in the generalized QR factorization of the pair (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR) is singular, so that rank(\fIA\fR) < \fBm\fR; the least squares solution could not be computed.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 2, the bottom (\fBn\fR-\fBm\fR)-by-(\fBn\fR-\fBm\fR) part of the upper trapezoidal factor \fIT\fR associated with \fIB\fR in the generalized QR factorization of the pair (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR) is singular, so that rank(\fIA\fR\fIB\fR) < \fBn\fR; the least squares solution could not be computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBggglm\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn,m\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn,p\fR).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIp\fR).
