.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ggrqf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ggrqf \- Computes the generalized RQ factorization of two matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sggrqf\fR (\fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItaua\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fItaub\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dggrqf\fR (\fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItaua\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fItaub\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cggrqf\fR (\fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItaua\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fItaub\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zggrqf\fR (\fIm\fR, \fIp\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItaua\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fItaub\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ggrqf\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fItaua\fR] [,\fItaub\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBp\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fIp\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggrqf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the \fIp\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIB\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; at least max(1, \fIp\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIp\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
on exit, if \fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, the upper triangle of the subarray \fIa\fR(1:\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR-\fIm\fR+1:\fIn\fR ) contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR; 
.IP
if \fIm\fR > \fIn\fR, the elements on and above the (\fIm\fR-\fIn\fR)th subdiagonal contain the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIR\fR; 
.IP
the remaining elements, with the array \fItaua\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors; the elements on and above the diagonal of the array \fIb\fR contain the min(\fIp\fR,\fIn\fR)-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal matrix \fIT\fR (\fIT\fR is upper triangular if \fIp\fR\(>=\fIn\fR); the elements below the diagonal, with the array \fItaub\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIZ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtaua\fR, \fBtaub\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcggrqf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzggrqf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)) for \fItaua\fR and at least max (1, min(\fIp\fR, \fIn\fR)) for \fItaub\fR. 
.IP
The array \fItaua\fR contains the scalar factors of the elementary reflectors which represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR.
.IP
The array \fItaub\fR contains the scalar factors of the elementary reflectors which represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIZ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBggrqf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIp,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtaua\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtaub\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIp,n\fR).
