.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gsum2d 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gsum2d \- Performs element-wise summation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall igsum2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall sgsum2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgsum2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgsum2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgsum2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrdest\fR, \fIcdest\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBicontxt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Integer handle that indicates the context.
.TP 10
\fBscope\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Indicates what scope the combine should proceed on. Limited to \fBROW\fR, \fBCOLUMN\fR, or \fBALL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtop\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Communication pattern to use during the combine operation.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of matrix rows to be combined.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of matrix columns to be combined.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBTYPE\fR array (\fBlda\fR, \fBn\fR). Matrix to be added to produce the sum.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the matrix \fIA\fR,  that is, the distance between two successive elements in a matrix row.
.TP 10
\fBrdest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process row coordinate of the process that should receive the result. If \fBrdest\fR or \fBcdest\fR = -1, all processes within the indicatedscope receive the answer.
.TP 10
\fBcdest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process column coordinate of the process that should receive the result. If \fBrdest\fR or \fBcdest\fR = -1, all processes within the indicatedscope receive the answer.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBTYPE\fR array (\fBlda\fR, \fBn\fR). Contains the result if this process is selected to receive the answer, or intermediate results if the process is not selected to receive the result.
