.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gtcon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gtcon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a tridiagonal matrix using the factorization computed by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgtcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgtcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgtcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgtcon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gtcon\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR[,\fInorm\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR, then the routine estimates the condition number of matrix \fIA\fR in 1-norm.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then the routine estimates the condition number of matrix \fIA\fR in infinity-norm.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR,\fBd\fR,\fBdu\fR,\fBdu2\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtcon\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIdl\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdu\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIdu2\fR(\fIn\fR -2). 
.IP
The array \fIdl\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?gttrf\fR. 
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu2\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The array of pivot indices, as returned by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The norm of the \fIoriginal\fRmatrix \fIA\fR .
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtcon\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (2*\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). Used for real flavors only.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number. The routine sets \fIrcond\fR=0 if the estimate underflows; in this case the matrix is singular (to working precision). However, anytime \fIrcond\fR is small compared to 1.0, for the working precision, the matrix may be poorly conditioned or even singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgtcon\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'1\'\fR, \fB\'O\'\fR, or \fB\'I\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'1\'\fR.
