.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gtrfs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gtrfs \- Refines the solution of a system of linear equations with a tridiagonal matrix and estimates its error.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgtrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgtrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgtrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgtrfs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gtrfs\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fItrans\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, the system has the form  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides, that is, the number of columns of the matrix \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR,\fBd\fR,\fBdu\fR,\fBdlf\fR,\fBdf\fR,\fBduf\fR,\fBdu2\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtrfs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtrfs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIdl\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fId\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR), contains the diagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIdu\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the superdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIdlf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.IP
\fIdf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR), contains the  \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIduf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.IP
\fIdu2\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -2), contains the (\fIn\fR - 2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,\fInrhs\fR) contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR.
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR,\fInrhs\fR) contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR, as computed by .
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array;  the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1, 2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). Used for real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgtrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgtrfs\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). Used for complex flavors only.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
The refined solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgtrfs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdlf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBduf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
