.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gtsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gtsv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a tridiagonal matrix A and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgtsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgtsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgtsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgtsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gtsv\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBdu\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtsv\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIdl\fR(\fIn\fR - 1), \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdu\fR(\fIn\fR - 1), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The array \fIdl\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the diagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) superdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR-2) elements of the second superdiagonal of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of A. These elements are stored in \fIdl\fR(1), ... , \fIdl\fR(\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR-1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIU\fR(\fIi\fR, \fIi\fR) is exactly zero, and the solution has not been computed. The factorization has not been completed unless \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgtsv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
