.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gtsvx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gtsvx \- Computes the solution to the real or complex system of linear equations with a tridiagonal matrix A and multiple right-hand sides, and provides error bounds on the solution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgtsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgtsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgtsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgtsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gtsvx\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIdlf\fR] [,\fIdf\fR] [,\fIduf\fR] [,\fIdu2\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIfact\fR] [,\fItrans\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIrcond\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'F\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether or not the factored form of the matrix \fIA\fR has been supplied on entry.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR:  on entry, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, and \fIipiv\fR contain the factored form of \fIA\fR; arrays \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, and \fIipiv\fR will not be modified.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the matrix \fIA\fR will be copied to \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, and \fIduf\fR and factored.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies the form of the system of equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the system has the form \fBA\fR*\fIX\fR = \fIB\fR (No transpose).
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR (Transpose).
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR (Conjugate transpose).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of linear equations,  the order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right hand sides, the number of columns of the matrices \fIB\fR and \fIX\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR,\fBd\fR,\fBdu\fR,\fBdlf\fR,\fBdf\fR, \fBduf\fR,\fBdu2\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtsvx\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIdl\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fId\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR), contains the diagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIdu\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1), contains the superdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIdlf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1). If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR , then \fIdlf\fR is an input argument and on entry contains the (\fIn\fR -1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.IP
\fIdf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR). If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR , then \fIdf\fR is an input argument and on entry contains the  \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR.
.IP
\fIduf\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -1). If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR , then \fIduf\fR is an input argument and on entry contains the (\fIn\fR -1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.IP
\fIdu2\fR, dimension (\fIn\fR -2). If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR , then \fIdu2\fR is an input argument and on entry contains the (\fIn\fR-2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR*) contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR*) contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR. The second dimension of \fIx\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array; 
.IP
the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1, 2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR , then \fIipiv\fR is an input argument and on entry contains the pivot indices, as returned by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). Used for real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzgtsvx\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). Used for complex flavors only.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgtsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgtsvx\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldx\fR,*).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 or \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR+1, the array \fIx\fR contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR. The second dimension of \fIx\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdlf\fR
.NL
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then \fIdlf\fR is an output argument and on exit contains the (\fIn\fR-1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of  A.
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR
.NL
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then \fIdf\fR is an output argument and on exit contains the  \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBduf\fR
.NL
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then \fIduf\fR is an output argument and on exit contains the (\fIn\fR-1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then \fIdu2\fR is an output argument and on exit contains the (\fIn\fR-2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
The array \fIipiv\fR is an output argument if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fRand, on exit, contains the pivot indices from the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIL*U\fR ; row \fIi\fR of the matrix was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). The value of \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) will always be  \fIi\fR or \fIi\fR+1; \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR)=\fIi\fR indicates a row interchange was not required.
.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal condition number of the matrix \fIA\fR. If \fIrcond\fR is less than the machine precision (in particular, if \fIrcond\fR =0), the matrix is singular to working precision.  This condition is indicated by a return code of \fIinfo\fR>0.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contains the estimated forward error bound for each solution vector \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) (the \fIj\fR-th column of the solution matrix \fIX\fR).   If \fIxtrue\fR is the true solution corresponding to \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR), \fBferr\fR(\fIj\fR)  is an estimated upper bound for the magnitude of the largest element in (\fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) - \fIxtrue\fR) divided by the magnitude of the largest element in \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR). The estimate is as reliable as the estimate for \fBrcond\fR, and is almost always a slight overestimate of the true error.
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contains the component-wise relative backward error for each solution vector \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR), that is, the smallest relative chnage in any element of \fIA\fR or \fIB\fR that makes \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) an exact solution.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, then \fIU\fR(\fIi\fR, \fIi\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization has not been completed unless \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR, but the factor \fIU\fR is exactly singular, so the solution  and error bounds could not be computed; \fIrcond\fR = 0 is returned. If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR + 1, then \fIU\fR is nonsingular, but \fIrcond\fR is less than machine precision, meaning that the matrix is singular to working precision. Nevertheless, the  solution and error bounds are computed because there are a number of situations where the  computed solution can be more accurate than the value of \fIrcond\fR would suggest.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgtsvx\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdlf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBduf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'F\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR. If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR, then the arguments \fIdlf\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIduf\fR, \fIdu2\fR, and \fIipiv\fR must be present; otherwise, an error is returned.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
