.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gttrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gttrf \- Computes the LU factorization of a tridiagonal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gttrf\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR[, \fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBdu\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgttrf\fR.
.IP
Arrays containing elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdl\fR of dimension (\fIn\fR - 1) contains the subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fId\fR of dimension \fIn\fR contains the diagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu\fR of dimension (\fIn\fR - 1) contains the superdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR-1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR-1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgttrf\fR.
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR-2). On exit, \fIdu2\fR contains (\fIn\fR-2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). The pivot indices: row \fIi\fR was interchanged with row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR)is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by zero will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgttrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vectror of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
