.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?gttrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?gttrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a tridiagonal matrix using the LU factorization computed by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sgttrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dgttrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cgttrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zgttrs\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall gttrs\fR( \fIdl\fR, \fId\fR, \fIdu\fR, \fIdu2\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIipiv\fR[, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, that is, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR,\fBd\fR,\fBdu\fR,\fBdu2\fR,\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsgttrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdgttrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcgttrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzgttrs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIdl\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdu\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIdu2\fR(\fIn\fR -2), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,\fInrhs\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIdl\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) multipliers that define the matrix \fIL\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR from the \fILU\fR factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) elements of the first superdiagonal of \fIU\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdu2\fR contains the  (\fIn\fR - 2) elements of the second superdiagonal of \fIU\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?gttrf\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgttrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBdl\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdu\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBdu2\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
