.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hbev 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hbev \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a Hermitian band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chbev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhbev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hbev\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIkd\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbev\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR (*) is a workspace array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of \fIab\fR; must be at least \fIkd\fR +1.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR. 
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR) .
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbev\fR
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 3\fIn\fR-2).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbev\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues in ascending order. 
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbev\fR. 
.IP
Array \fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten by the values generated during the reduction to tridiagonal form. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the first superdiagonal and the diagonal of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR are returned in rows \fIkd\fR and \fIkd\fR+1 of \fIab\fR, and if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the diagonal and first subdiagonal of \fIT\fR are returned in the first two rows of \fIab\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the algorithm failed to converge; 
.IP
\fIi\fR indicates the number of elements of an intermediate tridiagonal form which did not converge to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhbev\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted.
