.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hbgvx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hbgvx \- Computes selected eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a complex generalized Hermitian definite eigenproblem with banded matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chbgvx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhbgvx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hbgvx\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIvl\fR] [,\fIvu\fR] [,\fIil\fR] [,\fIiu\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIifail\fR] [,\fIq\fR] [,\fIabstol\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues only. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, the routine computes all eigenvalues. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues \fIlambda\fR(\fIi\fR) in the half-open interval: 
.IP
\fIvl\fR< \fIlambda\fR(\fIi\fR)\(<=\fIvu\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues with indices \fIil\fR to \fIiu\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, arrays \fIab\fR and \fIbb\fR store the upper triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, arrays \fIab\fR and \fIbb\fR store the lower triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBka\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIka\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIB\fR (\fIkb\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBbb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIbb\fR(\fIldbb\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIB\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIbb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork(*)\fR is a workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR; must be at least \fIka\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldbb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIbb\fR; must be at least \fIkb\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR, \fBvu\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the lower and upper bounds of the interval to be searched for eigenvalues. 
.IP
Constraint: \fIvl\fR< \fIvu\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBil\fR, \fBiu\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the indices in ascending order of the smallest and largest eigenvalues to be returned. 
.IP
Constraint: 1 \(<=\fIil\fR\(<=\fIiu\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, if \fIn\fR > 0; \fIil\fR=1 and \fIiu\fR=0
.IP
if \fIn\fR = 0.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR. 
.IP
The absolute error tolerance for the eigenvalues. 
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= 1. If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 7\fIn\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 5\fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, the contents of \fIab\fR are overwritten.
.TP 10
\fBbb\fR
.NL
On exit, contains the factor \fIS\fR from the split Cholesky factorization \fIB\fR = \fIS\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*S\fR, as returned by \fBcpbstf\fR/\fBzpbstf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The total number of eigenvalues found, 
.IP
0 \(<=\fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR. If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR, and if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIm\fR = \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR. 
.IP
Array \fIw\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues in ascending order. 
.TP 10
\fBz\fR, \fBq\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbgvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbgvx\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the matrix \fIZ\fR of eigenvectors, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). The eigenvectors are normalized so that \fIZ\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIB\fR*\fIZ\fR = I.
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
\fBq\fR(\fIldq\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIq\fR contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix used in the reduction of \fIAx\fR = \(*l\fIBx\fR to standard form, that is, \fICx\fR = \(*l\fIx\fR and consequently \fIC\fR to tridiagonal form.
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIq\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR elements of \fIifail\fR are zero; if \fIinfo\fR > 0, the \fIifail\fR contains the indices of the eigenvectors that failed to converge. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIifail\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and
.IP
if \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, the algorithm failed to converge, and \fIi\fR off-diagonal elements of an intermediate tridiagonal did not converge to zero; 
.IP
if \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR + \fIi\fR, for 1 \(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, then \fBcpbstf\fR/\fBzpbstf\fR returned \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR and \fIB\fR is not positive-definite. The factorization of \fIB\fR could not be completed and no eigenvalues or eigenvectors were computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhbgvx\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIka+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIbb\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIB\fR of size (\fIkb+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIQ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvl\fR = \fB-HUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvu\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvu\fR = \fBHUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBil\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIil\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBiu\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIiu\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIabstol\fR = \fB0.0\(ulWP\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted. 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if \fIifail\fR or \fIq\fR is present and \fIz\fR is omitted.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of arguments \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, if one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, if none of \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR is present, 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present and at the same time one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present.
