.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hbtrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hbtrd \- Reduces a complex Hermitian band matrix to tridiagonal form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chbtrd\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhbtrd\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hbtrd\fR(\fIa\fR[, \fIq\fR] [,\fIvect\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the routine returns the explicit matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the routine does not return \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIkd\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbtrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbtrd\fR.
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIab\fR; at least \fIkd\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIq\fR. Constraints:
.IP
\fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR) if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR;
.IP
\fIldq\fR\(>= 1 if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, the array \fIab\fR is overwritten.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchbtrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhbtrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchbtrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhbtrd\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldq\fR,*). 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIq\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIq\fR contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be: 
.IP
at least max(1, \fIn\fR) if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR;
.IP
at least 1 if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhbtrd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIQ\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
If omitted, this argument is restored based on the presence of argument \fIq\fR as follows: \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIq\fR is present, \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIq\fR is omitted. 
.IP
If present, \fIvect\fR must be equal to \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR and the argument \fIq\fR must also be present. Note that there will be an error condition if \fIvect\fR is present and \fIq\fR omitted.
