.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?heev 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?heev \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a Hermitian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall cheev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zheev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall heev\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIjobz\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcheev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzheev\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIa\fR. Must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. C
.IP
onstraint: \fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, 2\fIn\fR-1). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcheev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzheev\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 3\fIn\fR-2).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, array \fIa\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then on exit the lower triangle 
.IP
(if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR) or the upper triangle (if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR) of \fIA\fR, including the diagonal, is overwritten. 
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcheev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzheev\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBwork(1)\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIlwork\fR > 0, then \fIwork(1)\fR returns the required minimal size of \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the algorithm failed to converge; \fIi\fR indicates the number of elements of an intermediate tridiagonal form which did not converge to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBheev\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
