.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hemm 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hemm \- Computes a scalar-matrix-matrix product (either one of the matrices is Hermitian) and adds the result to scalar-matrix product.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chemm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhemm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hemm\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR[,\fIside\fR][,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIalpha\fR][,\fIbeta\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR appears on the left or right in the operation as follows:
.IP
if \fBside\fR = \'L\' or \'l\', then \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR;
.IP
if \fBside\fR = \'R\' or \'r\', then \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIB\fR*\fIA\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR is used:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR is used.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the low triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \fIA\fR is used.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of rows of the matrix\fI C\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIm\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of columns of the matrix \fIC\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchemm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhemm\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchemm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhemm\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR,\fIka\fR), where \fIka\fR is \fIm\fR when \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR and is \fIn\fR otherwise. Before entry with \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the Hermitian matrix, such that when \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced, and when \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.IP
Before entry with \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR or \fB\'r\'\fR, the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the Hermitian matrix, such that when \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced, and when \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements need not be set, they are assumed to be zero.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIa\fR as declared in the calling (sub) program. When \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR then \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR), otherwise \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchemm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhemm\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldb\fR,\fIn\fR).
.IP
Before entry, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIb\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIldb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchemm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhemm\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIbeta\fR.
.IP
When \fIbeta\fR is supplied as zero, then \fIc\fR  need not be set on input.
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchemm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhemm\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIc\fR, \fIn\fR). Before entry, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the matrix \fIC\fR, except when \fIbeta\fR is zero, in which case \fIc\fR need not be set on entry.
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIc\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIldc\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR updated matrix.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhemm\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIk\fR,\fIk\fR) where 
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIm\fR if \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIn\fR otherwise.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIC\fR of size (\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'L\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
