.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?herfs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?herfs \- Refines the solution of a system of linear equations with a complex Hermitian matrix and estimates its error.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall cherfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIldaf\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zherfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIldaf\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall herfs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of \fIA\fR is stored. 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR,\fBaf\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcherfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzherfs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the original matrix \fIA\fR, as supplied to \fB?hetrf\fR.
.IP
\fIaf\fR(\fIldaf\fR,*) contains the factored matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?hetrf\fR.
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR.
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR,*) contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR and \fIaf\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR); the second dimension of \fIb\fR and \fIx\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR); the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldaf\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIaf\fR; \fIldaf\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?hetrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcherfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzherfs\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
The refined solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcherfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzherfs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBherfs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIAF\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
