.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?herk 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?herk \- Performs a rank-n update of a Hermitian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall cherk\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zherk\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall herk\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIc\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIalpha\fR][,\fIbeta\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the array \fBc\fR is used.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the upper triangular part of the array \fBc\fR is used.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the low triangular part of the array \fBc\fR is is used.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the operation:
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'N\' or \'n\', then \fIC\fR:= \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*conjg(\fIA\fR\')+\fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR;
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'C\' or \'c\', then \fIC\fR:= \fIalpha\fR*conjg(\fIA\fR\')*\fIA\fR+\fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the order of the matrix \fIC\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. With \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, \fIk\fR specifies the number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR, and with \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, \fIk\fR specifies the number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIk\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcherk\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzherk\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcherk\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzherk\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR, \fIka\fR), where \fIka\fR is \fIk\fR when \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, and is \fIn\fR otherwise. Before entry with \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIk\fR part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the matrix \fIa\fR, otherwise the leading \fIk\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIa\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. When \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR), otherwise \fIlda\fR must be at least  max(1, \fIk\fR).
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcherk\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzherk\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIbeta\fR.
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcherk\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzherk\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldc\fR,\fIn\fR).
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIc\fR is not referenced.
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIc\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements need not be set, they are assumed to be zero.
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIc\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIldc\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the upper triangular part of the array \fIc\fR is overwritten by the upper triangular part of the updated matrix.
.IP
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the lower triangular part of the array \fIc\fR is overwritten by the lower triangular part of the updated matrix. 
.IP
The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are set to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBherk\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIma\fR,\fIka\fR) where 
.IP
\fIka\fR = \fIk\fR if \fItransa=\fR\fB\'N\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIka\fR = \fIn\fR otherwise, 
.IP
\fIma\fR = \fIn\fR if \fItransa=\fR\fB\'N\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIma\fR = \fIk\fR otherwise.
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIC\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
