.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hetri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hetri \- Computes the inverse of a complex Hermitian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chetri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhetri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hetri\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIipiv\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates how the input matrix \fIA\fR has been factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the Bunch-Kaufman factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*U*D*U\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the Bunch-Kaufman factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*L*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchetri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhetri\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the factorization of the matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?hetrf\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array.
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?hetrf\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix inv(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fID\fR is zero, \fID\fR is singular, and the inversion could not be completed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhetri\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
