.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hpev 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hpev \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a Hermitian matrix in packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chpev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhpev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hpev\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIap\fR stores the packed upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIap\fR stores the packed lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpev\fR. 
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIap(*)\fR contains the packed upper or lower triangle of Hermitian matrix A, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(*) is a workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 2\fIn\fR-1). 
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR. 
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR) .
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchpev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhpev\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 3\fIn\fR-2).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchpev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhpev\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIw\fR contains the eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order. 
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpev\fR. 
.IP
Array \fBz(\fR\fIldz,*\fR). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten by the values generated during the reduction to tridiagonal form. The elements of the diagonal and the off-diagonal of the tridiagonal matrix overwrite the corresponding elements of A.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the algorithm failed to converge; \fIi\fR indicates the number of elements of an intermediate tridiagonal form which did not converge to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhpev\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted.
