.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hpr2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hpr2 \- Performs a rank-2 update of a Hermitian packed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chpr2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR, \fIap\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhpr2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIincy\fR, \fIap\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hpr2\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR[,\fIuplo\fR][,\fIalpha\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the matrix  \fIA\fR is supplied in the packed array \fBap\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the upper triangular part of the matrix  \fIA\fR is supplied in the packed array \fBap\fR .
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the low triangular part of the matrix  \fIA\fR is supplied in the packed array \fBap\fR .
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the order of the matrix \fIA\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpr2\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpr2\fR
.IP
Array, dimension at least (1 +(\fIn\fR - 1)*abs(\fIincx\fR)). Before entry, the incremented array \fIx\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpr2\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 +(\fIn\fR - 1)*abs(\fIincy\fR)). Before entry, the incremented array \fIy\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element vector \fIy\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincy\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIy\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIincy\fR must not be zero.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpr2\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least ((\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR + 1))/2). Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIa\fR(1,1), \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIa\fR(1,2) and \fIa\fR(2,2) respectively, and so on. 
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIa\fR(1,1), \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIa\fR(2,1) and \fIa\fR(3,1) respectively, and so on. 
.IP
The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements need not be set and are assumed to be zero.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, overwritten by the upper triangular part of the updated matrix.
.IP
With \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, overwritten by the lower triangular part of the updated matrix. 
.IP
The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements need are set to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhpr2\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the array \fIa\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
