.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hpsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hpsv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a Hermitian matrix A stored in packed format, and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chpsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhpsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hpsv\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of \fIA\fR is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchpsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhpsv\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIap\fR(*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). The array \fIap\fR contains the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR, in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
The block-diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR (or \fIL\fR) from the factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?hptrf\fR, stored as a packed triangular matrix in the same storage format as \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIb\fR is overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Contains details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR, as determined by \fB?hptrf\fR. 
.IP
If \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR > 0, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is a 1-by-1 block, and the \fIi\fR-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIk\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fRand \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR-1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR-1, and (\fIi\fR-1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fRand \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR+1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR+1, and (\fIi\fR+1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fID\fR is exactly singular, so the solution could not be computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhpsv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
