.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hptrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hptrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a  UDU- or LDL-factored Hermitian matrix using packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall chptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hptrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIipiv\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates how the input matrix \fIA\fR has been factored:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the packed factor \fIU\fR of the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*U*D*U\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR. If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the packed factor \fIL\fR of the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*L*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The \fIipiv\fR array, as returned by \fB?hptrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchptrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhptrs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIap\fR(*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). The array \fIap\fR contains the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR, in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the system of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhptrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI nrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
