.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?hseqr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?hseqr \- Computes all eigenvalues and (optionally) the Schur factorization of a matrix reduced to Hessenberg form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall shseqr\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIwr\fR, \fIwi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dhseqr\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIwr\fR, \fIwi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall chseqr\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zhseqr\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall hseqr\fR(\fIh\fR, \fIwr\fR, \fIwi\fR[,\fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIcompz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.PP
\fBcall hseqr\fR(\fIh\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIilo\fR] [,\fIihi\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIjob\fR] [,\fIcompz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'S\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, then eigenvalues only are required. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, then the Schur form \fIT\fR is required.
.TP 10
\fBcompz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then no Schur vectors are computed (and the array \fIz\fR is not referenced). 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then the Schur vectors of \fIH\fR are computed (and the array \fIz\fR is initialized by the routine). 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then the Schur vectors of \fIA\fR are computed (and the array \fIz\fR must contain the matrix \fIQ\fR on entry).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIH\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIA\fR has been balanced by \fB?gebal\fR, then \fIilo\fR and \fIihi\fR must contain the values returned by \fB?gebal\fR. Otherwise, \fIilo\fR must be set to 1 and \fIihi\fR to \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBh\fR, \fBz\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBshseqr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdhseqr\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchseqr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhseqr\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIh\fR(\fIldh\fR,*) The \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIh\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*) 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIz\fR must contain the matrix \fIQ\fR from the reduction to Hessenberg form. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then \fIz\fR need not be set. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be 
.IP
at least max(1, \fIn\fR) if \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR; 
.IP
at least 1 if \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max (1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldh\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIh\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIz\fR; 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR.
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR)is sufficient, but \fIlwork\fR typically as large as 6*\fBn\fR may be required for optimal performance.  A workspace query to determine the optimal workspace size is recommended.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only estimates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBchseqr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzhseqr\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR). Contains the computed eigenvalues, unless \fIinfo\fR>0. The eigenvalues are stored in the same order as on the diagonal of the Schur form \fIT\fR (if computed).
.TP 10
\fBwr\fR, \fBwi\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBshseqr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdhseqr\fR
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR) each. 
.IP
Contain the real and imaginary parts, respectively, of the computed eigenvalues, unless \fIinfo\fR > 0. Complex conjugate pairs of eigenvalues appear consecutively with the eigenvalue having positive imaginary part first. The eigenvalues are stored in the same order as on the diagonal of the Schur form \fIT\fR (if computed).
.TP 10
\fBh\fR
.NL
If \fBinfo\fR = 0 and \fBjob\fR = \'S\', \fBh\fR contains the upper triangular matrix \fIT\fR from the Schur decomposition (the Schur form). 
.IP
If \fBinfo\fR = 0 and \fBjob\fR = \'E\', the contents of \fBh\fR are unspecified on exit.  (The output value of \fBh\fR when  \fIinfo\fR > 0 is given under the description of \fBinfo\fR below.)
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIz\fR contains  \fIQ\fR*\fIZ\fR. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR and \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIz\fR contains the unitary or orthogonal matrix \fIZ \fRof the Schur vectors of \fIH\fR. 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBwork(1)\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIwork(1)\fR returns the optimal \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, elements 1,2, ..., \fIilo\fR-1 and \fIi\fR+1, \fIi\fR+2, ..., \fIn\fR of \fIwr\fR and \fIwi\fR contain the real and imaginary parts of those eigenvalues that have been succesively found.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and  \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, then on exit, the remaining unconverged eigenvalues are the eigenvalues of the upper Hessenberg matrix rows and columns \fIilo\fR through \fIinfo\fR of the final output value of \fIH\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and  \fIjob\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, then on exit (initial value of \fIH\fR)*\fIU\fR  = \fIU\fR*(final value of \fIH\fR), where \fIU\fR is a unitary matrix.  The final value of  \fIH\fR is upper Hessenberg and triangular in rows and columns \fIinfo\fR+1 through \fIihi\fR.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and  \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then on exit  (final value of \fIZ\fR)  =  (initial value of \fIZ\fR)*\fIU\fR,  where \fIU\fR is the unitary matrix (regardless of the value of \fIjob\fR).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and  \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then on exit  (final value of \fIZ\fR)  =  \fIU\fR,  where \fIU\fR is the unitary matrix (regardless of the value of \fIjob\fR).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and  \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIZ\fR     is not accessed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBhseqr\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBh\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIH\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR). Used in real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBwi\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR). Used in real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR). Used in complex flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'S\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'E\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBcompz\fR
.NL
If omitted, this argument is restored based on the presence of argument \fIz\fR as follows: \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted. 
.IP
If present, \fIcompz\fR must be equal to \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR and the argument \fIz\fR must also be present. Note that there will be an error condition if \fIcompz\fR is present and \fIz\fR omitted.
