.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trtri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trtri \- Computes inverse interval matrix to a triangular interval matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsitrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBditrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcrtrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzrtrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcctrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzctrtri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'U\'\fR , \fB\'L\'\fR , \fB\'u\'\fR, or \fB\'l\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'U\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, or \fB\'u\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn \fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsitrtri\fR.
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBditrtri\fR.
.IP
\fBCR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcrtrtri\fR.
.IP
\fBZR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzrtrtri\fR.
.IP
\fBCC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcctrtri\fR.
.IP
\fBZC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzctrtri\fR.
.IP
Array: \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,*).
.IP
Contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by an interval \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix that encloses the inverse matrix inv(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution was successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR contains zero, \fIA\fR is singular, and its inversion could not be completed.
