.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trtrs \- Solves a triangular system of interval linear equations by backward substitution procedure.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBsitrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBditrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcrtrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzrtrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBcctrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall \fR\fBzctrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'U\'\fR , \fB\'L\'\fR , \fB\'u\'\fR, or \fB\'l\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'T\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, \fB\'t\'\fR, or \fB\'c\'\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\fR\fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIX\fR\fB = \fR \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER(1)\fR. Must be one of \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'U\'\fR, \fB\'n\'\fR, or \fB\'u\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, the number of rows in \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides (\fInrhs\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBS\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBsitrtrs\fR.
.IP
\fBD\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBditrtrs\fR.
.IP
\fBCR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcrtrtrs\fR.
.IP
\fBZR\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzrtrtrs\fR.
.IP
\fBCC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBcctrtrs\fR.
.IP
\fBZC\(ulINTERVAL\fR for \fBzctrtrs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR (\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR (\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR , whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR) and the second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR \(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR \(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR \(>= 0, the execution is not successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter has an illegal value.
