.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?\(ulinit\(ultrig\(ultransform 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
\- Initializes basic data structures of a Trigonometric Transform.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulinit\(ultrig\(ultransform \fR(\fBint \fR\fI*n, \fR\fBint \fR\fI*tt\(ultype, \fR\fBint \fR\fIipar[], \fR\fBdouble \fR\fIdpar[], \fR\fBint \fR\fI*stat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulinit\(ultrig\(ultransform \fR(\fBint \fR\fI*n, \fR\fBint \fR\fI*tt\(ultype, \fR\fBint \fR\fIipar[], \fR\fBfloat \fR\fIspar[], \fR\fBint \fR\fI*stat\fR)\fB;\fR
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Contains the size of the problem, which should be a positive integer greater than 1. Note that data vector of the transform, which other TT routines will use, must have size \fBn\fR+1 for all but staggered2 transforms. Staggered2 transforms require the vector of size \fBn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtt\(ultype\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Contains the type of transform to compute, defined via a set of named constants. The following constants are available in the current implementation of TT interface: MKL\(ulSINE\(ulTRANSFORM, MKL\(ulSTAGGERED\(ulSINE\(ulTRANSFORM,  MKL\(ulSTAGGERED2\(ulSINE\(ulTRANSFORM; MKL\(ulCOSINE\(ulTRANSFORM, MKL\(ulSTAGGERED\(ulCOSINE\(ulTRANSFORM,  MKL\(ulSTAGGERED2\(ulCOSINE\(ulTRANSFORM. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBint\fR array of size 128. Contains integer data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBdouble\fR array of size 5\fBn\fR/2+2. Contains double-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
\fBfloat\fR array of size 5\fBn\fR/2+2. Contains single-precision data needed for Trigonometric Transform computations. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Contains the routine completion status, which is also written to \fBipar[6]\fR. The status should be 0 to proceed to other TT routines. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 0
.NL
The routine successfully completed the task. In general, to proceed with computations, the routine should complete with this \fBstat\fR value.
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -99999
.NL
The routine failed to complete the task.
