.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?labrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?labrd \- Reduces the first \fInb\fR rows and columns of a general matrix to a bidiagonal form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slabrd\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIldy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlabrd\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIldy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clabrd\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIldy\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlabrd\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItauq\fR, \fItaup\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIldy\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBnb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of leading rows and columns of \fIA\fR to be reduced. 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslabrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlabrd\fR.
.IP
Array \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR to be reduced. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIx\fR; must beat least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldy\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIy\fR; must beat least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the first \fInb\fR rows and columns of the matrix are overwritten; the rest of the array is unchanged.
.IP
if \fIm\fR\(>=\fIn\fR, elements on and below the diagonal in the first \fInb\fR columns, with the array \fItauq\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors; and elements above the diagonal in the first \fInb\fR rows, with the array \fItaup\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIp\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.IP
if \fIm\fR < \fIn\fR, elements below the diagonal in the first \fInb\fR columns, with the array \fItauq\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors, and elements on and above the diagonal in the first \fInb\fR rows, with the array \fItaup\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIp\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fInb\fR) each. The array \fId\fR contains the diagonal elements of the first \fInb\fR rows and columns of the reduced matrix: 
.IP
\fId\fR(i) = \fIa\fR(i,i).
.IP
The array \fIe\fR contains the off-diagonal elements of the first \fInb\fR rows and columns of the reduced matrix.
.TP 10
\fBtauq\fR, \fBtaup\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslabrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlabrd\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fInb\fR) each. Contain scalar factors of the elementary reflectors which represent the orthogonal/unitary matrices \fIQ\fR and \fIP\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR, \fBy\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslabrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclabrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlabrd\fR.
.IP
Arrays, dimension \fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR, \fInb\fR), \fIy\fR(\fIldy\fR, \fInb\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIx\fR contains the \fIm\fR-by-\fInb\fR matrix \fIX\fR required to update the unreduced part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIy\fR contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fInb\fR matrix \fIY\fR required to update the unreduced part of \fIA\fR. 
