.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lacn2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lacn2 \- Estimates the 1-norm of a square matrix, using reverse communication for evaluating matrix-vector products.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slacn2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR, \fIisave\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlacn2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR, \fIisave\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clacn2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR, \fIisave\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlacn2\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR, \fIisave\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 1). 
.TP 10
\fBv\fR, \fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslacn2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlacn2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclacn2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlacn2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR) each. 
.IP
\fIv\fR is a workspace array.
.IP
\fIx\fR is used as input after an intermediate return. 
.TP 10
\fBisgn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR), used with real flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBest\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslacn2\fR/\fBclacn2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlacn2\fR/\fBzlacn2\fR
.IP
On entry with  \fIkase\fR set to 1 or 2, and \fIisave\fR(1) = 1, \fBest\fR must be unchanged from the previous call to the routine.
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
On the initial call to the routine, \fIkase\fR must be set to 0.
.TP 10
\fBisave\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fI3\fR).  
.IP
Contains variables from the previous call to the routine.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBest\fR
.NL
An estimate (a lower bound) for norm(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
On an intermediate return, \fIkase\fR is set to 1 or 2, indicating whether \fIx\fR is overwritten by \fIA\fR*\fIx\fR or \fIA\'\fR*\fIx\fR. 
.IP
On the final return, \fIkase\fR is set to 0.
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
On the final return, \fIv\fR = \fIA\fR*\fIw\fR, where \fIest\fR = norm(\fIv\fR)/norm(\fIw\fR) (\fIw\fR is not returned). 
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
On an intermediate return, \fIx\fR is overwritten by 
.IP
\fIA\fR*\fIx\fR ,     if \fIkase\fR = 1, 
.IP
\fIA\'\fR*\fIx\fR ,    if \fIkase\fR = 2, 
.IP
(\fIA\'\fR is the conjugate transpose of \fIA\fR), and the routine must be re-called with all the other parameters unchanged.
.TP 10
\fBisave\fR
.NL
This parameter  is used to save variables between calls to the routine.
