.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lacon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lacon \- Estimates the 1-norm of a square matrix, using reverse communication for evaluating matrix-vector products.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slacon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlacon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clacon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlacon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 1). 
.TP 10
\fBv\fR, \fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslacon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlacon\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR) each. 
.IP
\fIv\fR is a workspace array.
.IP
\fIx\fR is used as input after an intermediate return. 
.TP 10
\fBisgn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR), used with real flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBest\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslacon\fR/\fBclacon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlacon\fR/\fBzlacon\fR
.IP
An estimate that with \fBkase\fR=1 or 2 should be unchanged from the previous call to \fB?lacon\fR.
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
On the initial call to \fB?lacon\fR, \fIkase\fR should be 0.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBest\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslacon\fR/\fBclacon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlacon\fR/\fBzlacon\fR
.IP
An estimate (a lower bound) for norm(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
On an intermediate return, \fIkase\fR will be 1 or 2, indicating whether \fIx\fR should be overwritten by \fIA\fR*\fIx\fR or \fIA\'\fR*\fIx\fR. On the final return from \fB?lacon\fR, \fIkase\fR will again be 0.
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
On the final return, \fIv\fR = \fIA\fR*\fIw\fR, where \fIest\fR = norm(\fIv\fR)/norm(\fIw\fR) (\fIw\fR is not returned). 
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
On an intermediate return, \fIx\fR should be overwritten by 
.IP
\fIA\fR*\fIx\fR ,     if \fIkase\fR = 1, 
.IP
\fIA\'\fR*\fIx\fR ,    if \fIkase\fR = 2, 
.IP
(where for complex flavors \fIA\'\fR is the conjugate transpose of \fIA)\fR, and \fB?lacon\fR must be re-called with all the other parameters unchanged. 
