.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laed2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laed2 \- Used by \fBsstedc\fR/\fBdstedc\fR. Merges eigenvalues and deflates secular equation. Used when the original matrix is tridiagonal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaed2\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIindxq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIq2\fR, \fIindx\fR, \fIindxc\fR, \fIindxp\fR, \fIcoltyp\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaed2\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIindxq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIq2\fR, \fIindx\fR, \fIindxc\fR, \fIindxp\fR, \fIcoltyp\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of non-deflated eigenvalues, and the order of the related secular equation (0 \(<= \fIk\fR \(<= \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the symmetric tridiagonal matrix (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The location of the last eigenvalue in the leading sub-matrix; min(1,\fIn\fR) \(<= \fIn1\fR \(<= \fIn\fR/2.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBq\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed2\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR\fB(*)\fR contains the eigenvalues of the two submatrices to be combined. The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR, *) contains the eigenvectors of the two submatrices in the two square blocks with corners at (1,1), (\fIn1\fR,\fIn1\fR) and  (\fIn1\fR+1,\fIn1\fR+1), (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR). The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
\fIz\fR\fB(*)\fR contains the updating vector (the last row of the first sub-eigenvector matrix and the first row of the second sub-eigenvector matrix).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBindxq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, dimension (\fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, the permutation which separately sorts the two subproblems in \fId\fR into ascending order. Note that elements in the second half of this permutation must first have \fIn1\fR added to their values. 
.TP 10
\fBrho\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed2\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the off-diagonal element associated with the rank-1 cut which originally split the two submatrices which are now being recombined.
.TP 10
\fBindx\fR, \fBindxp\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace arrays, dimension (\fIn\fR) each. Array \fIindx\fR contains the permutation used to sort the contents of \fIdlamda\fR into ascending order. 
.IP
Array \fIindxp\fR contains the permutation used to place deflated values of \fId\fR at the end of the array. 
.IP
\fIindxp\fR(1:\fIk\fR) points to the nondeflated \fId\fR-values and \fIindxp\fR(\fIk\fR+1:\fIn\fR) points to the deflated eigenvalues.
.TP 10
\fBcoltyp\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, dimension (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
During execution, a label which will indicate which of the following types a column in the \fIq2\fR matrix is: 
.IP
1 : non-zero in the upper half only; 
.IP
2 : dense; 
.IP
3 : non-zero in the lower half only; 
.IP
4 : deflated.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On exit, \fId\fR contains the trailing (\fIn\fR-\fIk\fR) updated eigenvalues (those which were deflated) sorted into increasing order.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIq\fR contains the trailing (\fIn\fR-\fIk\fR) updated eigenvectors (those which were deflated) in its last \fIn\fR-\fIk\fR columns.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIz\fR content is destroyed by the updating process.
.TP 10
\fBindxq\fR
.NL
Destroyed on exit.
.TP 10
\fBrho\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIrho\fR has been modified to the value required by \fB?laed3\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdlamda\fR, \fBw\fR, \fBq2\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed2\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIdlamda\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIw\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIq2\fR(\fIn1\fR**2+(\fIn\fR-\fIn1\fR)**2).
.IP
The array \fIdlamda\fR contains a copy of the first \fIk\fR eigenvalues which is used by \fB?laed3\fR to form the secular equation.
.IP
The array \fIw\fR contains the first \fIk\fR values of the final deflation-altered \fIz\fR-vector which is passed to \fB?laed3\fR.
.IP
The array \fIq2\fR contains a copy of the first \fIk\fR eigenvectors which is used by \fB?laed3\fR in a matrix multiply (\fBsgemm\fR/\fBdgemm\fR) to solve for the new eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBindxc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, dimension (\fIn\fR).
.IP
The permutation used to arrange the columns of the deflated \fIq\fR matrix into three groups: the first group contains non-zero elements only at and above \fIn1\fR, the second contains non-zero elements only below \fIn1\fR, and the third is dense.
.TP 10
\fBcoltyp\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIcoltyp\fR(i) is the number of columns of type i, for i=1 to 4 only (see the definition of types in the description of \fIcoltyp\fR in \fIInput Parameters\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
