.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laed9 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laed9 \- Used by \fBsstedc\fR/\fBdstedc\fR. Finds the roots of the secular equation and updates the eigenvectors. Used when the original matrix is dense.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaed9\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIkstart\fR, \fIkstop\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIlds\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaed9\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIkstart\fR, \fIkstop\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIlds\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of terms in the rational function to be solved by \fBslaed4\fR/\fBdlaed4\fR (\fIk\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBkstart\fR, \fBkstop\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The updated eigenvalues \fIlambda\fR(i), 
.IP
\fIkstart\fR \(<= i \(<= \fIkstop\fR are to be computed. 
.IP
1 \(<= \fIkstart\fR \(<= \fIkstop\fR  \(<=  \fIk\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows and columns in the \fIQ\fR matrix. \fIn\fR\(>=\fIk\fR (deflation may result in \fIn\fR > \fIk\fR).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed9\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed9\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, dimension (\fIldq, *\fR). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrho\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed9\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed9\fR
.IP
The value of the parameter in the rank one update equation. \fIrho\fR\(>= 0 required.
.TP 10
\fBdlamda\fR, \fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed9\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed9\fR
.IP
Arrays, dimension (\fIk\fR) each. The first \fBk\fR elements of the array \fIdlamda\fR(*) contain the old roots of the deflated updating problem. These are the poles of the secular equation.
.IP
The first \fIk\fR elements of the array \fIw\fR(*) contain the components of the deflation-adjusted updating vector.
.TP 10
\fBlds\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIs\fR; \fIlds\fR\(>= max(1, \fIk\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed9\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed9\fR
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). Elements in \fId(i)\fR  are not referenced for 1 \(<= \fIi\fR <   \fIkstart\fR or \fIkstop\fR<\fIi\fR  \(<= \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed9\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed9\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIlds, *\fR) .
.IP
The second dimension of \fIs\fR must be at least max(1, \fIk\fR). Will contain the eigenvectors of the repaired matrix which will be stored for subsequent \fIz\fR vector calculation and multiplied by the previously accumulated eigenvectors to update the system.
.TP 10
\fBdlamda\fR
.NL
On exit, the value is modified to make sure all  \fIdlamda\fR(\fIi\fR) - \fIdlamda\fR(\fIj\fR) can be computed with high relative accuracy, barring overflow and underflow.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Destroyed on exit.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. If \fIinfo\fR = 1, the eigenvalue did not converge.
