.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laed1 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laed1 \- Used by \fBsstedc\fR/\fBdstedc\fR. Computes the updated eigensystem of a diagonal matrix after modification by a rank-one symmetric matrix. Used when the original matrix is tridiagonal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaed1\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIindxq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIcutpnt\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaed1\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIindxq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIcutpnt\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the symmetric tridiagonal matrix (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBq\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed1\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed1\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR\fB(*)\fR contains the eigenvalues of the rank-1-perturbed matrix. The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR, *) contains the eigenvectors of the rank-1-perturbed matrix. The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fI*\fR) is a workspace array, dimension at least (4\fIn\fR+\fIn\fR**2).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fBq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBindxq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, dimension (\fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, the permutation which separately sorts the two subproblems in \fId\fR into ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBrho\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed1\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed1\fR. 
.IP
The subdiagonal entry used to create the rank-1 modification. This parameter can be modified by \fB?laed2\fR, where it is input/output.
.TP 10
\fBcutpnt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The location of the last eigenvalue in the leading sub-matrix. min(1,\fIn\fR) \(<= \fIcutpnt\fR \(<= \fIn\fR/2.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, dimension (4\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On exit, contains the eigenvalues of the repaired matrix.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIq\fR contains the eigenvectors of the repaired tridiagonal matrix.
.TP 10
\fBindxq\fR
.NL
On exit, contains the permutation which will reintegrate the subproblems back into sorted order, that is, \fId\fR( \fIindxq\fR(i = 1, \fIn\fR )) will be in ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. If \fIinfo\fR = 1, an eigenvalue did not converge.
