.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laed0 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laed0 \- Used by \fB?stedc\fR. Computes all eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors of an unreduced symmetric tridiagonal matrix using the divide and conquer method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaed0\fR( \fIicompq\fR, \fIqsiz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIqstore\fR, \fIldqs\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaed0\fR( \fIicompq\fR, \fIqsiz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIqstore\fR, \fIldqs\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claed0\fR( \fIqsiz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIqstore\fR, \fIldqs\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaed0\fR( \fIqsiz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIqstore\fR, \fIldqs\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBicompq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Used with real flavors only.
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 0, compute eigenvalues only. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 1, compute eigenvectors of original dense symmetric matrix also. 
.IP
On entry, the array \fIq\fR must contain the orthogonal matrix used to reduce the original matrix to tridiagonal form. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 2, compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the tridiagonal matrix.
.TP 10
\fBqsiz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the orthogonal/unitary matrix used to reduce the full matrix to tridiagonal form; \fIqsiz\fR\(>=\fIn\fR (for real flavors, \fIqsiz\fR\(>=\fIn\fR if \fIicompq\fR = 1).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the symmetric tridiagonal matrix (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR\fB(*)\fR contains the main diagonal of the tridiagonal matrix. The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR\fB(*)\fR contains the off-diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix. The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fIrwork\fR(\fI*\fR) is a workspace array used in complex flavors only. The dimension of \fIrwork\fR must be at least (1 +3\fIn\fR+2\fIn\fR\fBlg\fR(\fIn\fR)+3\fIn\fR**2), where \fBlg\fR(\fIn\fR) = smallest integer \fIk\fR such that 2**\fIk\fR\(>=\fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR, \fBqstore\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed0\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed0\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaed0\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaed0\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR, *), \fIqstore\fR(\fIldqs\fR, *). The second dimension of these arrays must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIFor real flavors:\fR
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 0, array \fIq\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 1, on entry, \fIq\fR is a subset of the columns of the orthogonal matrix used to reduce the full matrix to tridiagonal form corresponding to the subset of the full matrix which is being decomposed at this time. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 2, on entry, \fIq\fR will be the identity matrix. The array \fIqstore\fR is a workspace array referenced only when \fIicompq\fR = 1. Used to store parts of the eigenvector matrix when the updating matrix multiplies take place.
.IP
For complex flavors:
.IP
On entry, \fIq\fR must contain an \fIqsiz\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix whose columns are unitarily orthonormal. It is a part of the unitary matrix that reduces the full dense Hermitian matrix to a (reducible) symmetric tridiagonal matrix. The array \fIqstore\fR is a workspace array used to store parts of the eigenvector matrix when the updating matrix multiplies take place.
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldqs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIqstore\fR; \fIldqs\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed0\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed0\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, used in real flavors only. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 0 or 1, the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least (1 +3\fIn\fR+2\fIn\fR\fBlg\fR(\fIn\fR)+2\fIn\fR**2), where \fBlg\fR(\fIn\fR) = smallest integer \fIk\fR such that 2**\fIk\fR\(>=\fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIicompq\fR = 2, the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least (4\fIn\fR+\fIn\fR**2).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array. 
.IP
For real flavors, if \fIicompq\fR = 0 or 1, and for complex flavors, the dimension of \fIiwork\fR must be at least (6+6\fIn\fR+5\fIn\fR\fBlg\fR(\fIn\fR)). 
.IP
For real flavors, if \fIicompq\fR = 2, the dimension of \fIiwork\fR must be at least (3+5\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On exit, contains eigenvalues in ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
On exit, the array is destroyed.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
If \fIicompq\fR = 2, on exit, \fIq\fR contains the eigenvectors of the tridiagonal matrix.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR >0, the algorithm failed to compute an eigenvalue while working on the submatrix lying in rows and columns \fIi\fR/(\fIn\fR+1) through mod(\fIi\fR, \fIn\fR+1).
