.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laed3 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laed3 \- Used by \fBsstedc\fR/\fBdstedc\fR. Finds the roots of the secular equation and updates the eigenvectors. Used when the original matrix is tridiagonal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaed3\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIq2\fR, \fIindx\fR, \fIctot\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaed3\fR( \fIk\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fId\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIrho\fR, \fIdlamda\fR, \fIq2\fR, \fIindx\fR, \fIctot\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of terms in the rational function to be solved by \fB?laed4\fR  (\fIk\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows and columns in the \fIq\fR matrix. \fIn\fR\(>=\fIk\fR (deflation may result in \fIn\fR >\fIk\fR).
.TP 10
\fBn1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The location of the last eigenvalue in the leading sub-matrix; min(1,\fIn\fR) \(<= \fIn1\fR \(<= \fIn\fR\fB/\fR2.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed3\fR. 
.IP
Array \fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR, *). The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
Initially, the first \fIk\fR columns of this array are used as workspace.
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIq\fR; \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrho\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed3\fR. 
.IP
The value of the parameter in the rank one update equation. \fIrho\fR\(>= 0 required.
.TP 10
\fBdlamda\fR, \fBq2\fR, \fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed3\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fBdlamda\fR(\fBk\fR), \fBq2\fR(\fIldq2\fR, *), \fBw\fR(\fBk\fR).
.IP
The first \fIk\fR elements of the array \fIdlamda\fR contain the old roots of the deflated updating problem. These are the poles of the secular equation.
.IP
The first \fIk\fR columns of the array \fIq2\fR contain the non-deflated eigenvectors for the split problem. The second dimension of \fIq2\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
The first \fIk\fR elements of the array \fIw\fR contain the components of the deflation-adjusted updating vector. 
.TP 10
\fBindx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, dimension (\fIn\fR).
.IP
The permutation used to arrange the columns of the deflated \fIq\fR matrix into three groups (see \fB?laed2\fR).
.IP
The rows of the eigenvectors found by \fB?laed4\fR must be likewise permuted before the matrix multiply can take place.
.TP 10
\fBctot\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, dimension (4).
.IP
A count of the total number of the various types of columns in \fIq\fR, as described in \fIindx\fR. The fourth column type is any column which has been deflated.
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed3\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, dimension (\fIn1\fR+1)*\fIk\fR . 
.IP
Will contain the eigenvectors of the repaired matrix which will be multiplied by the previously accumulated eigenvectors to update the system.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaed3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaed3\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
\fId\fR(i) contains the updated eigenvalues for 1 \(<= i \(<= \fIk\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
On exit, the columns 1 to \fIk\fR of \fIq\fR contain the updated eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBdlamda\fR
.NL
May be changed on output by having lowest order bit set to zero on Cray X-MP, Cray Y-MP, Cray-2, or Cray C-90, as described above.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Destroyed on exit.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 1, an eigenvalue did not converge.
