.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laexc 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laexc \- Swaps adjacent diagonal blocks of a real upper quasi-triangular matrix in Schur canonical form, by an orthogonal similarity transformation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaexc\fR( \fIwantq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIj1\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fIn2\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaexc\fR( \fIwantq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIj1\fR, \fIn1\fR, \fIn2\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBwantq\fR
.NL
\fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
If \fIwantq\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, accumulate the transformation in the matrix \fIQ\fR;
.IP
If \fIwantq\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, do not accumulate the transformation.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBt\fR, \fBq\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaexc\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaexc\fR
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIt\fR(\fIldt\fR,*) contains on entry the upper quasi-triangular matrix \fIT\fR, in Schur canonical form. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIt\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR,*)\fI\fR contains on entry, if \fIwantq\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR. If \fIwantq\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, \fIq\fR is not referenced. The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIt\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIq\fR; 
.IP
If \fIwantq\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, then \fIldq\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIwantq\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, then \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBj1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The index of the first row of the first block \fIT\fR11.
.TP 10
\fBn1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the first block \fIT\fR11
.IP
(\fIn1\fR = 0, 1, or 2).
.TP 10
\fBn2\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the second block \fIT\fR22
.IP
(\fIn2\fR = 0, 1, or 2).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fB REAL\fR for \fBslaexc\fR;
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaexc\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBt\fR
.NL
On exit, the updated matrix \fIT\fR, again in Schur canonical form.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIwantq\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, the updated matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 1, the transformed matrix \fIT\fR would be too far from Schur form; the blocks are not swapped and \fIT\fR and \fIQ\fR are unchanged.
