.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lagts 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lagts \- Solves the system of equations (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)*\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR or (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)**\fIT\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR ,where \fIT\fR is a general tridiagonal matrix and \fIlambda\fR is a scalar, using the \fILU\fR factorization computed by \fB?lagtf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slagts\fR( \fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIin\fR, \fIy\fR, \fItol\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlagts\fR( \fIjob\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIin\fR, \fIy\fR, \fItol\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the job to be performed by \fB?lagts\fR as follows:
.IP
=  1: The equations (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR are to be solved, but diagonal elements of \fIU\fR are not to be perturbed.
.IP
= -1: The equations (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR are to be solved and, if overflow would otherwise occur, the diagonal elements of \fIU\fR are to be perturbed. See argument \fItol\fR below.
.IP
=  2: The equations (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)\'\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR are to be solved, but diagonal elements of \fIU\fR are not to be perturbed.
.IP
= -2: The equations (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)\'\fIx\fR = \fIy\fR are to be solved and, if overflow would otherwise occur, the diagonal elements of \fIU\fR are to be perturbed. See argument \fItol\fR below.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBc\fR, \fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagts\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagts\fR
.IP
Arrays, dimension \fIa\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIb\fR(\fIn\fR-1), \fIc\fR(\fIn\fR-1), \fId\fR(\fIn\fR-2): 
.IP
On entry, \fIa\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the diagonal elements of \fIU\fR as returned from \fB?lagtf\fR. 
.IP
On entry, \fIb\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the first super-diagonal elements of \fIU\fR as returned from \fB?lagtf\fR. 
.IP
On entry, \fIc\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the sub-diagonal elements of \fIL\fR as returned from \fB?lagtf\fR. 
.IP
On entry, \fId\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the second super-diagonal elements of \fIU\fR as returned from \fB?lagtf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBin\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
On entry, \fIin\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain details of the matrix \fIp\fR as returned from \fB?lagtf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagts\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagts\fR
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). On entry, the right hand side vector \fIy\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBtol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagtf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagtf\fR. 
.IP
On entry, with \fIjob\fR < 0, \fItol\fR should be the minimum perturbation to be made to very small diagonal elements of \fIU\fR. \fItol\fR should normally be chosen as about \fIeps\fR*norm(\fIU\fR), where \fIeps\fR is the relative machine precision, but if \fItol\fR is supplied as non-positive, then it is reset to \fIeps\fR*max( abs( u(i,j)) ). If \fIjob\fR > 0 then \fItol\fR is not referenced.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIy\fR is overwritten by the solution vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtol\fR
.NL
On exit, \fItol\fR is changed as described in \fIInput Parameters\fRsection above, only if \fItol\fR is non-positive on entry. Otherwise \fItol\fR is unchanged.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. If \fIinfo\fR  = \fIi\fR >0, overflow would occur when computing the \fIi\fRth element of the solution vector \fIx\fR. This can only occur when \fIjob\fR is supplied as positive and either means that a diagonal element of \fIU\fR is very small, or that the elements of the right-hand side vector \fIy\fR are very large.
