.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lagtf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lagtf \- Computes an LU factorization of a matrix T-\(*l*I, where T is a general tridiagonal matrix, and \(*l is a scalar, using partial pivoting with row interchanges.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slagtf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlambda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fItol\fR, \fId\fR, \fIin\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlagtf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlambda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fItol\fR, \fId\fR, \fIin\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagtf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagtf\fR
.IP
Arrays, dimension \fIa\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIb\fR(\fIn\fR-1), \fIc\fR(\fIn\fR-1): 
.IP
On entry, \fIa\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
On entry, \fIb\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the (\fIn\fR-1) super-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
On entry, \fIc\fR\fB(*)\fR must contain the (\fIn\fR-1) sub-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagtf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagtf\fR
.IP
On entry, a relative tolerance used to indicate whether or not the matrix (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR) is nearly singular. \fItol\fR should normally be chose as approximately the largest relative error in the elements of \fIT\fR. For example, if the elements of \fIT\fR are correct to about 4 significant figures, then \fItol\fR should be set to about 5*10. If \fItol\fR is supplied as less than eps, where eps is the relative machine precision, then the value eps is used in place of \fItol\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIa\fR is overwritten by the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the upper triangular matrix \fIU\fR of the factorization of \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIb\fR is overwritten by the \fIn\fR-1 super-diagonal elements of the matrix \fIU\fR of the factorization of \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIc\fR is overwritten by the \fIn\fR-1 sub-diagonal elements of the matrix \fIL\fR of the factorization of \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagtf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagtf\fR
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR-2). 
.IP
On exit, \fId\fR is overwritten by the \fIn\fR-2 second super-diagonal elements of the matrix \fIU\fR of the factorization of \fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBin\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
On exit, \fIin\fR contains details of the permutation matrix \fIp\fR. If an interchange occurred at the \fBk\fR-th step of the elimination, then \fIin\fR(\fBk\fR) = 1, otherwise \fIin\fR(\fBk\fR) = 0. The element \fIin\fR(\fIn\fR) returns the smallest positive integer \fBj\fR such that 
.IP
\fBabs\fR(\fIu\fR(\fBj\fR,\fBj\fR)) \(<=  \fBnorm\fR((\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR)(\fBj\fR))*\fItol\fR, 
.IP
where norm( \fIA\fR(\fBj\fR)) denotes the sum of the absolute values of the \fBj\fR-th row of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If no such \fBj\fR exists then \fIin\fR(\fIn\fR) is returned as zero. If \fIin\fR(\fIn\fR) is returned as positive, then a diagonal element of \fIU\fR is small, indicating that (\fIT\fR - \fIlambda\fR*\fII\fR) is singular or nearly singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-k\fR, the \fIk-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
