.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lagv2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lagv2 \- Computes the Generalized Schur factorization of a real 2-by-2 matrix pencil (\fIA\fR,\fIB\fR) where B is upper triangular. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slagv2\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIalphar\fR, \fIalphai\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIcsl\fR, \fIsnl\fR, \fIcsr\fR, \fIsnr\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlagv2\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIalphar\fR, \fIalphai\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIcsl\fR, \fIsnl\fR, \fIcsr\fR, \fIsnr\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagv2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagv2\fR
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,\fB2)\fR contains the 2-by-2 matrix \fIA\fR; 
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,\fB2)\fR contains the upper triangular 2-by-2 matrix \fIB\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR; 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= 2.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIb\fR; 
.IP
\fIldb\fR\(>= 2.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIa\fR is overwritten by the ``\fIA\fR-part'' of the generalized Schur form.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIb\fR is overwritten by the ``\fIB\fR-part'' of the generalized Schur form.
.TP 10
\fBalphar\fR, \fBalphai\fR, \fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagv2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagv2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, dimension (2) each.
.IP
(\fIalphar\fR(k) + \fIi\fR*\fIalphai\fR(k))/\fIbeta\fR(k) are the eigenvalues of the pencil (\fIA\fR,\fIB\fR), k=1,2 and \fIi\fR = sqrt(-1). 
.IP
Note that \fIbeta\fR(k) may be zero.
.TP 10
\fBcsl\fR, \fBsnl\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagv2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagv2\fR
.IP
The cosine and sine of the left rotation matrix, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBcsr\fR, \fBsnr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslagv2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlagv2\fR
.IP
The cosine and sine of the right rotation matrix, respectively.
