.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lamc2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lamc2 \- Used by \fB?lamch\fR. Determines machine parameters specified in its arguments list.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slamc2\fR( \fIbeta\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIrnd\fR, \fIeps\fR, \fIemin\fR, \fIrmin\fR, \fIemax\fR, \fIrmax\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlamc2\fR( \fIbeta\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIrnd\fR, \fIeps\fR, \fIemin\fR, \fIrmin\fR, \fIemax\fR, \fIrmax\fR)
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The base of the machine.
.TP 10
\fBt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of (\fIbeta\fR) digits in the mantissa.
.TP 10
\fBrnd\fR
.NL
\fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether proper rounding  (\fIrnd\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR)  or chopping  (\fIrnd\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR) occurs in addition. This may not be a reliable guide to the way in which the machine performs its arithmetic.
.TP 10
\fBeps\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslamc2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlamc2\fR
.IP
The smallest positive number such that 
.IP
\fIfl\fR(1.0 - \fIeps\fR) < 1.0, 
.IP
where \fIfl\fR denotes the computed value.
.TP 10
\fBemin\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The minimum exponent before (gradual) underflow occurs.
.TP 10
\fIrmin\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslamc2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlamc2\fR
.IP
The smallest normalized number for the machine, given by 
.IP
\fIbase\fR**\fIemin\fR-1, 
.IP
where  \fIbase\fR is the floating point value of \fIbeta\fR.
.TP 10
\fBemax\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.The maximum exponent before overflow occurs.
.TP 10
\fBrmax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslamc2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlamc2\fR
.IP
The largest positive number for the machine, given by \fIbase\fR**\fIemax\fR(1 - \fIeps\fR), where \fIbase\fR  is the floating point value of \fIbeta\fR.
