.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lange 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lange \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, Frobenius norm, infinity-norm, or the largest absolute value of any element of a general rectangular matrix. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslange\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlange\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclange\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlange\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIm\fR\(>= 0. When \fIm\fR = 0, \fB?lange\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIn\fR\(>= 0. When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lange\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslange\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlange\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= max(\fIm\fR,1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslange\fR and \fBclange\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlange\fR and \fBzlange\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR max(1,\fIlwork\fR), where \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIm\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslange\fR/\fBclange\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlange\fR/\fBzlange\fR
.IP
Value returned by the function.
