.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lanhs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lanhs \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, Frobenius norm, infinity-norm, or the largest absolute value of any element of an upper Hessenberg matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslanhs\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlanhs\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclanhs\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlanhs\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine as described above.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIn\fR\(>= 0. When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lanhs\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslanhs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlanhs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclanhs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlanhs\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). The \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper Hessenberg matrix \fIA\fR; the part of \fIA\fR below the first sub-diagonal is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= max(\fIn\fR,1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslanhs\fR and \fBclanhs\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlange\fR and \fBzlange\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(max(1,\fIlwork\fR)), where \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslanhs\fR/\fBclanhs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlanhs\fR/\fBzlanhs\fR
.IP
Value returned by the function.
