.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lansy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lansy \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, or the Frobenius norm, or the  infinity norm, or the  element of  largest absolute value of a real/complex symmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslansy\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlansy\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclansy\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlansy\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(ij))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR is to be referenced.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular part of \fIA\fR is referenced.
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is referenced
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0. When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lansy\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclansy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlansy\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). The symmetric matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= max(\fIn\fR,1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansy\fR and \fBclansy\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansy\fR and \fBzlansy\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(max(1,\fIlwork\fR)), where 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansy\fR/\fBclansy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansy\fR/\fBzlansy\fR
.IP
Value returned by the function.
