.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lansb 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lansb \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, or the Frobenius norm, or the infinity norm, or the element of largest absolute value of a symmetric band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslansb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlansb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclansb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlansb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the band matrix \fIA\fR is supplied. If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR: upper triangular part is supplied; If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR: lower triangular part is supplied.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.IP
When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lansb\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super-diagonals or sub-diagonals of the band matrix \fIA\fR. \fIk\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansb\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclansb\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlansb\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR,\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The upper or lower triangle of the symmetric band matrix \fIA\fR, stored in the first \fIk\fR+1 rows of \fIab\fR. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the \fIj\fR-th column of the array \fIab\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR(\fIk\fR+1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR)
.IP
for max(1,\fIj\fR-\fIk\fR) \(<=  \fIi\fR\(<= \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR(1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=min(\fIn\fR,\fIj\fR+\fIk\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR. 
.IP
\fIldab\fR\(>=\fIk\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansb\fR and \fBclansb\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansb\fR and \fBzlansb\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(max(1,\fIlwork\fR)), where 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslansb\fR/\fBclansb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlansb\fR/\fBzlansb\fR
.IP
Value returned by the function.
