.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lantb 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lantb \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, or the Frobenius norm, or the infinity norm, or the element of largest absolute value of a triangular band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslantb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlantb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclantb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlantb\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(ij))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  Non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0. When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lantb\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super-diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, or the number of sub-diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR. \fIk\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantb\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclantb\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlantb\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR,\fIn\fR). The upper or lower triangular band matrix \fIA\fR, stored in the first \fIk\fR+1 rows of \fIab\fR. 
.IP
The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the \fIj\fR-th column of the array \fIab\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR(\fIk\fR+1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for max(1,\fIj\fR-\fIk\fR) \(<= i \(<= j; 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR(1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR\(<= \fIi\fR\(<= min(\fIn\fR,\fIj\fR+\fIk\fR). 
.IP
Note that when \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the elements of the array \fIab\fR corresponding to the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIA\fR are not referenced, but are assumed to be one.
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR. 
.IP
\fIldab\fR\(>=\fIk\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantb\fR and \fBclantb\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantb\fR and \fBzlantb\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(max(1,\fIlwork\fR)), where 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR ; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantb\fR/\fBclantb\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantb\fR/\fBzlantb\fR. 
.IP
Value returned by the function.
