.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lantp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lantp \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, or the Frobenius norm, or the infinity norm, or the element of  largest absolute value of a triangular matrix supplied in packed form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBslantp\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBdlantp\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBclantp\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBzlantp\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the vaule to be returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(ij))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  Non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIn\fR\(>= 0. When \fIn\fR = 0, \fB?lantp\fR is set to zero.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclantp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlantp\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). 
.IP
The upper or lower triangular matrix \fIA\fR, packed columnwise in a linear array. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the array \fIap\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, AP(i + (\fIj\fR\fB-1)\fR\fIj\fR\fB/2) =\fR\fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for 1\(<= \fIi\fR\(<= \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIap\fR(\fIi\fR + (\fIj\fR-1)(2\fIn\fR-\fIj\fR)/2) = \fIa\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR\(<= \fIi\fR\(<=  \fIn\fR. 
.IP
Note that when \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the elements of the array \fIap\fR corresponding to the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIA\fR are not referenced, but are assumed to be one.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantp\fR and \fBclantp\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantp\fR and \fBzlantp\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(max(1,\fIlwork\fR)), where \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR when \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR ; otherwise, \fIwork\fR is not referenced. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslantp\fR/\fBclantp\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlantp\fR/\fBzlantp\fR. 
.IP
Value returned by the function.
