.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laqhb 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laqhb \- Scales a Hermetian band matrix, using scaling factors computed by \fB?pbequ\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall claqhb\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaqhb\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the band matrix \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR: upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR: lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super-diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, or the number of sub-diagonals if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
\fIkd\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqhb\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqhb\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR,\fIn\fR). On entry, the upper or lower triangle of the band matrix \fIA\fR, stored in the first \fIkd\fR+1 rows of the array. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the \fIj\fR-th column of the array \fIab\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR(\fIkd\fR+1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR) = A(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for max(1,\fIj\fR-\fIkd\fR) \(<=  \fIi\fR \(<=  \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR(1+\fIi\fR-\fIj\fR,\fIj\fR)  = A(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR \(<= \fIi\fR \(<= min(\fIn\fR,\fIj\fR+\fIkd\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR. 
.IP
\fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkd\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBclaqsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzlaqsb\fR
.IP
Ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR) to the largest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBclaqsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzlaqsb\fR
.IP
Absolute value of largest matrix entry.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the triangular factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization \fIA\fR = \fIU\'\fR*\fIU\fR or \fIA\fR = \fIL\fR*\fIL\'\fR of the band matrix \fIA\fR, in the same storage format as \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBclaqsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzlaqsb\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The scale factors for \fBA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBequed\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not equilibration was done. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR:  No equilibration. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR  = \fB\'Y\'\fR:  Equilibration was done, that is, \fIA\fR has been replaced by diag(\fIs\fR)*\fIA\fR*diag(\fIs\fR).
