.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laqp2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laqp2 \- Computes a QR factorization with column pivoting of the matrix block.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaqp2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIoffset\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIvn1\fR, \fIvn2\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaqp2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIoffset\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIvn1\fR, \fIvn2\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claqp2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIoffset\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIvn1\fR, \fIvn2\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaqp2\fR( \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIoffset\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIjpvt\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIvn1\fR, \fIvn2\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIm\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBoffset\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR that must be pivoted but no factorized. \fIoffset\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqp2\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). On entry, the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1,\fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
On entry, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) \(!= 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is permuted to the front of \fIA\fR*\fIP\fR (a leading column); if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) = 0, the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is a free column.
.TP 10
\fBvn1\fR, \fBvn2\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqp2\fR/\fBclaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqp2\fR/\fBzlaqp2\fR
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR) each. Contain the vectors with the partial and exact column norms, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqp2\fR Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the upper triangle of block \fIA\fR(\fIoffset\fR+1:\fIm\fR,1:\fIn\fR) is the triangular factor obtained; the elements in block \fIA\fR(\fIoffset\fR+1:\fIm\fR,1:\fIn\fR) below the diagonal, together with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors. Block \fIA\fR(1:\fIoffset\fR,1:\fIn\fR) has been accordingly pivoted, but not factorized.
.TP 10
\fBjpvt\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIjpvt\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR, then the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIA\fR*\fIP\fR was the \fIk\fR-th column of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqp2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqp2\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(min(\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR)). 
.IP
The scalar factors of the elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBvn1\fR, \fBvn2\fR
.NL
Contain the vectors with the partial and exact column norms, respectively.
