.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laqr4 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laqr4 \- Computes the eigenvalues of a Hessenberg matrix, and optionally the marices from the Schur decomposition.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaqr4\fR(\fI wantt\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIwr\fR, \fIwi\fR, \fIiloz\fR, \fIihiz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaqr4\fR(\fI wantt\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIwr\fR, \fIwi\fR, \fIiloz\fR, \fIihiz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claqr4\fR(\fI wantt\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiloz\fR, \fIihiz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaqr4\fR(\fI wantt\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIh\fR, \fIldh\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiloz\fR, \fIihiz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBwantt\fR
.NL
\fBLOGICAL\fR.
.IP
If \fIwantt\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, the full Schur form \fBT\fR is required;
.IP
If \fIwantt\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, only eigenvalues are required.
.TP 10
\fBwantz\fR
.NL
\fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, the matrix of Schur vectors \fIZ\fR is required;  
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, Schur vectors are not required. 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR. (\fIn\fR \(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
It is assumed that \fIH\fR is already upper triangular in rows and columns 1:\fBilo\fR-1 and \fBihi\fR+1:\fBn\fR, and if \fBilo \fR> 1 then \fIh\fR(\fIilo\fR, \fIilo\fR-1) = 0.
.IP
\fBilo\fR and \fBihi\fR are normally set by a previous call to \fBcgebal\fR, and then passed to \fBcgehrd\fR when the matrix output by \fBcgebal\fR is reduced to Hessenberg form. Otherwise, \fBilo\fR and \fBihi\fR should be set to 1 and \fBn\fR, respectively.
.IP
If \fBn \fR> 0, then  1 \(<= \fIilo \fR\(<=\fI ihi \fR\(<= \fBn\fR.  
.IP
If \fBn\fR=0, then \fBilo\fR=1 and \fBihi\fR=0
.TP 10
\fBh\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqr4\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldh\fR, \fIn\fR), contains the upper Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldh\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fBh\fR. \fBldh \fR\(>= max(1, \fBn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiloz\fR, \fBihiz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Specify the rows of \fIZ\fR to which transformations must be applied if \fIwantz\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR, 1 \(<=\fI iloz\fR \(<=\fI ilo\fR; \fIihi \fR\(<=\fI ihiz \fR\(<=\fI n\fR.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqr4\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, \fIihi\fR), contains the matrix \fIZ \fR if \fIwantz\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR.  If \fIwantz\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER.\fR The leading dimension of the array \fBz\fR. 
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR, then \fBldz \fR\(>= max(1, \fBihiz\fR). Otherwise, \fBldz \fR\(>= 1.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqr4\fR.
.IP
Workspace array with dimension \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR.  \fI\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR \(>= max(1,\fIn\fR) is sufficient, but for the optimal performance a greater workspace may be required, typically as large as 6*\fBn\fR. 
.IP
It is recommended to use the worlspace query to determine the optimal workspace size. If \fBlwork\fR=-1,then the routine performs a workspace query: it estimates the optimal workspace size for the given values of the input parameters \fBn\fR, \fBilo\fR, and \fBihi\fR. The estimate is returned in \fBwork\fR(1). No error messages related to the \fBlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. Neither \fIH\fR nor \fIZ\fR are accessed.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBh\fR
.NL
If \fBinfo\fR=0 , and \fIwantt\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR,  then \fBh\fR contains the upper quasi-triangular/triangular matrix \fIT\fR  from the Schur decomposition (the Schur form).
.IP
If \fBinfo\fR=0 , and \fIwantt\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR,  then the contents of \fBh\fR are unspecified on exit.
.IP
(The output values of \fBh\fR when \fBinfo \fR> 0 are given under the description of the \fBinfo\fR parameter below.)
.IP
The routines may explicitly set \fBh\fR(i,j) for i>j  and j=1,2,...\fBilo\fR-1 or j=\fBihi\fR+1, \fBihi\fR+2,...\fBn\fR.
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. 
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqr4\fR.
.IP
Arrays,\fB DIMENSION\fR(\fIn\fR). The computed eigenvalues of \fBh\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR) are stored in \fBw\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR). If \fIwantt\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR,  then the eigenvalues are stored in the same order as on the diagonal of the Schur form returned in \fBh\fR, with \fBw\fR(i) = \fBh\fR(i,i).
.TP 10
\fBwr\fR, \fBwi\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqr4\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqr4\fR
.IP
Arrays,\fB DIMENSION\fR(\fIihi\fR) each. The real and imaginary parts, respectively, of the computed eigenvalues of  \fBh\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR) are stored in the \fBwr\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR) and \fBwi\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR). If two eigenvalues are computed as a complex conjugate pair, they are stored in consecutive elements of \fIwr\fR and \fIwi\fR, say the \fIi\fR-th and (\fIi\fR+1)-th, with \fIwi\fR(\fIi\fR)> 0 and \fIwi\fR(\fIi\fR+1) < 0. If \fIwantt\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR , then the eigenvalues are stored in the same order as on the diagonal of the Schur form returned in \fIh\fR, with \fBwr\fR(i) = \fBh\fR(i,i),  and if  \fBh\fR(i:i+1,i:i+1)is a 2-by-2 diagonal block, then \fBwi\fR(i)=sqrt(-\fBh\fR(i+1,i)*\fBh\fR(i,i+1)). 
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
If \fIwantz\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR, then \fI\fBz\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBiloz\fR:\fBihiz\fR)\fR is replaced by \fI\fBz\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBiloz\fR:\fBihiz\fR)*\fIU\fR\fR, where \fIU\fR is the orthogonal/unitary Schur factor of \fI\fBh\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR)\fR.
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, \fIz\fR is not referenced.  
.IP
(The output values of \fBz\fR when \fBinfo\fR > 0 are given under the description of the \fBinfo\fR parameter below.)
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: the execution is successful.
.IP
> 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the routine failed to compute all the eigenvalues.  Elements 1:\fIilo\fR-1 and i+1:\fBn\fR of \fIwr\fR and \fIwi\fR contain those eigenvalues which have been successfully computed.   
.IP
> 0: if \fIwantt\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, then the remaining unconverged eigenvalues are the eigenvalues of the upper Hessenberg matrix rows and columns \fBilo\fR through \fBinfo\fR of the final output value of \fBh\fR. 
.IP
> 0: if \fIwantt\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR, then (initial value of \fBh\fR)*\fIU\fR = \fIU\fR*(final value of \fBh\fR, where \fIU\fR is an orthogonal/unitary matrix.  The final value of \fBh\fR is upper Hessenberg and quasi-triangular/triangular in rows and columns \fBinfo\fR+1 through \fBihi\fR.
.IP
> 0: if \fIwantz\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR, then (final value of \fBz\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBiloz\fR:\fBihiz\fR))=(initial value of \fBz\fR(\fBilo\fR:\fBihi\fR, \fBiloz\fR:\fBihiz\fR)*\fIU\fR, where \fIU\fR is the orthogonal/unitary matrix in the previous expression (regardless of the value of \fBwantt\fR).
.IP
> 0: if \fIwantz\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, then \fBz\fR is not accessed.
