.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laqsp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laqsp \- Scales a symmetric/Hermitian matrix in packed storage, using scaling factors computed by \fB?ppequ\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaqsp\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaqsp\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claqsp\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaqsp\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR: upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR: lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqsp\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). 
.IP
On entry, the upper or lower triangle of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR, packed columnwise in a linear array. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the array \fIap\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIap\fR(i + (\fIj\fR-1)\fIj\fR/2) =  \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for 1 \(<=  \fIi\fR \(<=  \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIap\fR(i + (\fIj\fR-1)(2\fIn\fR-\fIj\fR)/2) =  \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsp\fR/\fBclaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsp\fR/\fBzlaqsp\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The scale factors for \fBA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsp\fR/\fBclaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsp\fR/\fBzlaqsp\fR
.IP
Ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR) to the largest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsp\fR/\fBclaqsp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsp\fR/\fBzlaqsp\fR
.IP
Absolute value of largest matrix entry.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
On exit, the equilibrated matrix: diag(\fIs\fR)*\fIA\fR*diag(\fIs\fR), in the same storage format as \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBequed\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not equilibration was done. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR:  No equilibration. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR  = \fB\'Y\'\fR:  Equilibration was done, that is, \fIA\fR has been replaced by diag(\fIs\fR)*\fIA\fR*diag(\fIs\fR).
