.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laqsy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laqsy \- Scales a symmetric/Hermitian matrix, using scaling factors computed by \fB?poequ\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaqsy\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaqsy\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claqsy\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaqsy\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIequed\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR: upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR: lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
\fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaqsy\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). On entry, the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= max(\fIn\fR,1).
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsy\fR/\fBclaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsy\fR/\fBzlaqsy\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The scale factors for \fBA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsy\fR/\fBclaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsy\fR/\fBzlaqsy\fR
.IP
Ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR) to the largest \fIs\fR(\fIi\fR).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaqsy\fR/\fBclaqsy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaqsy\fR/\fBzlaqsy\fR
.IP
Absolute value of largest matrix entry.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIequed\fR = \fB\'Y\'\fR, the equilibrated matrix: diag(\fIs\fR)*\fIA\fR*diag(\fIs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBequed\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not equilibration was done. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR:  No equilibration. 
.IP
If \fIequed\fR  = \fB\'Y\'\fR:  Equilibration was done, i.e., \fIA\fR has been replaced by diag(\fIs\fR)*\fIA\fR*diag(\fIs\fR).
