.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lar2v 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lar2v \- Applies a vector of plane rotations with real cosines and real/complex sines from both sides to a sequence of 2-by-2 symmetric/Hermitian matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slar2v\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIincc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlar2v\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIincc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clar2v\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIincc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlar2v\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIincc\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of plane rotations to be applied.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslar2v\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlar2v\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclar2v\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlar2v\fR
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (1+(\fIn\fR-1)*\fIincx\fR) each. Contain the  vectors x, y and z, respectively. For all flavors of \fB?lar2v\fR, elements of \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR are assumed to be real.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The increment between elements of \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, and \fIz\fR. \fIincx\fR > 0.
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslar2v\fR/\fBclar2v\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlar2v\fR/\fBzlar2v\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (1+(\fIn\fR-1)*\fIincc\fR). The cosines of the plane rotations.
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslar2v\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlar2v\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclar2v\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlar2v\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (1+(\fIn\fR-1)*\fIincc\fR). The sines of the plane rotations.
.TP 10
\fBincc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The increment between elements of \fIc\fR and \fIs\fR. \fIincc\fR > 0.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
Vectors \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR and \fIz\fR, containing the results of transform. 
