.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laref 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laref \- Applies Householder reflectors to matrices on either their rows or columns.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaref\fR(\fItype\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIblock\fR, \fIirow1\fR, \fIicol1\fR, \fIistart\fR, \fIistop\fR, \fIitmp1\fR, \fIitmp2\fR, \fIliloz\fR, \fIlihiz\fR, \fIvecs\fR, \fIv2\fR, \fIv3\fR, \fIt1\fR, \fIt2\fR, \fIt3\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaref\fR(\fItype\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIwantz\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIblock\fR, \fIirow1\fR, \fIicol1\fR, \fIistart\fR, \fIistop\fR, \fIitmp1\fR, \fIitmp2\fR, \fIliloz\fR, \fIlihiz\fR, \fIvecs\fR, \fIv2\fR, \fIv3\fR, \fIt1\fR, \fIt2\fR, \fIt3\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtype\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHRACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
If \fItype\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, apply reflectors to the rows of the matrix (apply from left). Otherwise, apply reflectors to the columns of the matrix. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for \fBslaref\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaref\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, *). 
.IP
On entry, the matrix to receive the reflections.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the leading dimension of \fIA\fR; unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBwantz\fR
.NL
(global) \fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR = \fB.TRUE.\fR, apply any column reflections to \fIZ\fR as well. 
.IP
If \fIwantz\fR = \fB.FALSE.\fR, do no additional work on \fIZ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for \fBslaref\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaref\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, *). 
.IP
On entry, the second matrix to receive column reflections.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the leading dimension of \fIZ\fR; unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBblock\fR
.NL
(global). \fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
= \fB.TRUE.\fR  : apply several reflectors at once and read their data from the \fIvecs\fR array;
.IP
= \fB.FALSE.\fR : apply the single reflector given by \fIv2\fR, \fIv3\fR, \fIt1\fR, \fIt2\fR, and \fIt3\fR.
.TP 10
\fBirow1\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the local row element of the matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBicol1\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the local column element of the matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBistart\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Specifies the "number" of the first reflector. 
.IP
\fIistart\fR is used as an index into \fIvecs\fR if \fIblock\fR is set. \fIistart\fR is ignored if \fIblock\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR .
.TP 10
\fBistop\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Specifies the "number" of the last reflector. 
.IP
\fIistop\fR is used as an index into \fIvecs\fR if \fIblock\fR is set. \fIistop\fR is ignored if \fIblock\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR .
.TP 10
\fBitmp1\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Starting range into \fIA\fR. For rows, this is the local first column. For columns, this is the local first row.
.TP 10
\fBitmp2\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Ending range into \fIA\fR. For rows, this is the local last column. For columns, this is the local last row.
.TP 10
\fBliloz\fR, \fBlihiz\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Serve the same purpose as \fIitmp1\fR, \fIitmp2\fR but for \fIZ\fR when \fIwantz\fR is set.
.TP 10
\fBvecs\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaref\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaref\fR. 
.IP
Array of size 3 *\fIn\fR (matrix size). This array holds the size 3 reflectors one after another and is only accessed when \fIblock\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR
.TP 10
\fBv2\fR,\fBv3\fR,\fBt1\fR,\fBt2\fR,\fBt3\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaref\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaref\fR. 
.IP
These parameters hold information on a single size 3 Householder reflector and are read when \fIblock\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, and overwritten when \fIblock\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the updated matrix.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Changed only if \fIwantz\fR is set. If \fIwantz\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR , \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBirow1\fR
.NL
Undefined.
.TP 10
\fBicol1\fR
.NL
Undefined.
.TP 10
\fBv2\fR,\fBv3\fR,\fBt1\fR,\fBt2\fR,\fBt3\fR
.NL
These parameters are read when \fIblock\fR is \fB.FALSE.\fR, and overwritten when \fIblock\fR is \fB.TRUE.\fR.
