.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?larnv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?larnv \- Returns a vector of random numbers from a uniform or normal distribution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slarnv\fR( \fIidist\fR, \fIiseed\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlarnv\fR( \fIidist\fR, \fIiseed\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clarnv\fR( \fIidist\fR, \fIiseed\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlarnv\fR( \fIidist\fR, \fIiseed\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIx\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBidist\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the distribution of the random numbers: for \fBslarnv\fR and \fBdlanrv\fR:
.IP
= 1:  uniform (0,1) 
.IP
= 2:  uniform (-1,1) 
.IP
= 3:  normal (0,1). 
.IP
for \fBclarnv\fR and \fBzlanrv\fR:
.IP
= 1:  real and imaginary parts each uniform (0,1) 
.IP
= 2:  real and imaginary parts each uniform (-1,1) 
.IP
= 3:  real and imaginary parts each normal (0,1) 
.IP
= 4:  uniformly distributed on the disc abs(z) < 1
.IP
= 5:  uniformly distributed on the circle abs(z) = 1
.TP 10
\fBiseed\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (4). 
.IP
On entry, the seed of the random number generator; the array elements must be between 0 and 4095, and \fIiseed\fR(4) must be odd.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of random numbers to be generated.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslarnv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlarnv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclarnv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlarnv\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The generated random numbers.
.TP 10
\fBiseed\fR
.NL
On exit, the seed is updated.
