.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lascl 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lascl \- Multiplies a general rectangular matrix by a real scalar defined as  c(to)/c(from).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slascl\fR( \fItype\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIcfrom\fR, \fIcto\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlascl\fR( \fItype\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIcfrom\fR, \fIcto\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clascl\fR( \fItype\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIcfrom\fR, \fIcto\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlascl\fR( \fItype\fR, \fIkl\fR, \fIku\fR, \fIcfrom\fR, \fIcto\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtype\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. This parameter specifies the storage type of the input matrix.
.IP
= \fB\'G\'\fR: \fIA\fR is a full matrix.
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR: \fIA\fR is a lower triangular matrix.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR: \fIA\fR is an upper triangular matrix.
.IP
= \fB\'H\'\fR: \fIA\fR is an upper Hessenberg matrix.
.IP
= \fB\'B\'\fR: \fIA\fR is a symmetric band matrix with lower bandwidth \fIkl\fR and upper bandwidth \fIku\fR and with the only the lower half stored
.IP
= \fB\'Q\'\fR: \fIA\fR is a symmetric band matrix with lower bandwidth \fIkl\fR and upper bandwidth \fIku\fR and with the only the upper half stored.
.IP
= \fB\'Z\'\fR: \fIA\fR is a band matrix with lower bandwidth \fIkl\fR and upper bandwidth \fIku\fR.
.TP 10
\fBkl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The lower bandwidth of \fIA\fR. Referenced only if \fItype\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, \fB\'Q\'\fR or \fB\'Z\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBku\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The upper bandwidth of \fIA\fR. Referenced only if \fItype\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, \fB\'Q\'\fR or \fB\'Z\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBcfrom\fR, \fBcto\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslascl\fR/\fBclascl\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlascl\fR/\fBzlascl\fR
.IP
The matrix \fIA\fR is multiplied by \fIcto\fR/\fIcfrom\fR. \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) is computed without over/underflow if the final result \fIcto\fR*\fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR)/\fIcfrom\fR can be represented without over/underflow. \fIcfrom\fR must be nonzero.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIm\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslascl\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlascl\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclascl\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlascl\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). The matrix to be multiplied by \fIcto\fR/\fIcfrom\fR. See \fItype\fR for the storage type.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
\fIlda\fR\(>= max(1,\fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
The multiplied matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 - successful exit 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR < 0, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value.
