.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lasq1 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lasq1 \- Computes the singular values of a real square bidiagonal matrix. Used by \fB?bdsqr\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slasq1\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlasq1\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.The number of rows and columns in the matrix. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslasq1\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlasq1\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, \fId\fR contains the diagonal elements of the bidiagonal matrix whose \fISVD\fR is desired. 
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslasq1\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlasq1\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, elements \fIe\fR(1:\fIn\fR-1) contain the off-diagonal elements  of the bidiagonal matrix whose \fISVD\fR is desired.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslasq1\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlasq1\fR.
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(4\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On normal exit, \fId\fR contains the singular values in decreasing order.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIe\fR is overwritten.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: successful exit;
.IP
< 0: if \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value; 
.IP
> 0: the algorithm failed: 
.IP
= 1, a split was marked by a positive value in \fIe\fR;
.IP
= 2, current block of \fIz\fR not diagonalized after 30\fIn\fR iterations (in inner while loop); 
.IP
= 3, termination criterion of outer while loop not met  (program created more than \fIn\fR unreduced blocks.
