.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?laswp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?laswp \- Performs a series of row interchanges on a general rectangular matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slaswp\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIk1\fR, \fIk2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlaswp\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIk1\fR, \fIk2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall claswp\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIk1\fR, \fIk2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlaswp\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIk1\fR, \fIk2\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslaswp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlaswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclaswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlaswp\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
On entry, the matrix of column dimension \fIn\fR to which the row interchanges will be applied.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBk1\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first element of \fIipiv\fR for which a row interchange will  be done.
.TP 10
\fBk2\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The last element of \fIipiv\fR for which a row interchange will be done.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIk2\fR*|\fIincx\fR|). 
.IP
The vector of pivot indices. Only the elements in positions \fIk1\fR through \fIk2\fR of \fIipiv\fR are accessed.
.IP
\fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) = \fIl\fR implies rows \fIk\fR and \fIl\fR are to be interchanged.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The increment between successive values of \fIipiv\fR. If \fIipiv\fR is negative, the pivots are applied in reverse order.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the permuted matrix.
