.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?lasyf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?lasyf \- Computes a partial factorization of a real/complex symmetric matrix, using the diagonal pivoting method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slasyf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIldw\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlasyf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIldw\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clasyf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIldw\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlasyf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIldw\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR is stored:
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The maximum number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR that should be factored. \fInb\fR should be at least 2 to allow for 2-by-2 pivot blocks.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslasyf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlasyf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclasyf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlasyf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of \fBa\fR contains the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly lower triangular part of \fBa\fR is not referenced. If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of \fBa\fR contains the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fBa\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fBa\fR. \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslasyf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlasyf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclasyf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlasyf\fR.
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldw\fR, \fInb\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldw\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIw\fR. \fIldw\fR\(>= max(1,\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBkb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of \fIA\fR that were actually factored \fIkb\fR is either \fInb\fR-1 or \fInb\fR, or \fIn\fR if \fIn\fR \(<= \fInb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, \fBa\fR contains details of the partial factorization.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR ). Details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, only the last \fIkb\fR elements of \fIipiv\fR are set; 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, only the first \fIkb\fR elements are set.
.IP
If \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) > 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) were interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR, \fIk\fR) is a 1-by-1 diagonal block. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) = \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR-1) < 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR-1 and -\fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) were interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR-1:\fIk\fR, \fIk\fR-1:\fIk\fR) is a 2-by-2 diagonal block. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) = \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR+1) < 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR+1 and \fI-ipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) were interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR:\fIk\fR+1, \fIk\fR:\fIk\fR+1) is a 2-by-2 diagonal block.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: successful exit
.IP
> 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR, \fID\fR(\fIk\fR, \fIk\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization has been completed, but the block diagonal matrix \fID\fR is exactly singular.
