.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?latbs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?latbs \- Solves a triangular banded system of equations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slatbs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlatbs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clatbs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlatbs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  lower triangular
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies the operation applied to \fIA\fR. 
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  solve \fIA*\fR\fIx\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR  (no transpose) 
.IP
= \fB\'T\'\fR:  solve \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*x\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR  (transpose) 
.IP
= \fB\'C\'\fR:  solve \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*x\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR  (conjugate transpose)
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  unit triangular
.TP 10
\fBnormin\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether \fIcnorm\fR is set.
.IP
= \fB\'Y\'\fR:  \fIcnorm\fR contains the column norms on entry;
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  \fIcnorm\fR is not set on entry. On exit, the norms is computed and stored in \fIcnorm\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of subdiagonals or superdiagonals in the triangular matrix \fIA\fR. \fIkb\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatbs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatbs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclatbs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlatbs\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldab\fR, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The upper or lower triangular band matrix \fIA\fR, stored in the first \fIkb\fR+1 rows of the array. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the \fIj\fR-th column of the array \fIab\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR(\fIkd\fR+1+\fIi\fR\fI-j\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR ,\fIj\fR) for max(1, \fIj\fR-\fIkd\fR) \(<= \fIi\fR \(<= \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR(1+\fIi\fR\fI-j\fR,\fIj\fR) = \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR ,\fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR \(<= \fIi\fR \(<= min(\fIn\fR, \fIj\fR+\fIkd\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR. \fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkb\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatbs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatbs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclatbs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlatbs\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
On entry, the right hand side \fIb\fR of the triangular system.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatbs\fR/\fBclatbs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatbs\fR/\fBzlatbs\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fINORMIN\fR = \fB\'Y\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an input argument and \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) contains the norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the infinity-norm, and if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR , \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the 1-norm. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatbs\fR/\fBclatbs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatbs\fR/\fBzlatbs\fR.
.IP
The scaling factor s for the triangular system as described above. If \fIscale\fR = 0, the matrix \fIA\fR is singular or badly scaled, and the vector \fIx\fR is an exact or approximate solution to \fIA\fR\fIx\fR = 0.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
If \fInormin\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an output argument and \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) returns the 1-norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
= 0:  successful exit
.IP
< 0:  if \fIinfo\fR = -\fIk\fR, the \fIk\fR-th argument had an illegal value
