.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?latps 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?latps \- Solves a triangular system of equations with the matrix held in packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall slatps\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dlatps\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall clatps\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zlatps\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  uower triangular
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies the operation applied to \fIA\fR. 
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  solve \fIA\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR  (no transpose) 
.IP
= \fB\'T\'\fR:  solve \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR (transpose) 
.IP
= \fB\'C\'\fR:  solve \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIs\fR*\fIb\fR (conjugate transpose)
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular.
.IP
= \fI\'N\fR\':  non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  unit triangular
.TP 10
\fBnormin\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether \fIcnorm\fR is set.
.IP
= \fB\'Y\'\fR:  \fIcnorm\fR contains the column norms on entry;
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  \fIcnorm\fR is not set on entry. On exit, the norms will be computed and stored in cnorm.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatps\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatps\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclatps\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlatps\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). 
.IP
The upper or lower triangular matrix \fIA\fR, packed columnwise in a linear array. The \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR is stored in the array \fIap\fR as follows: 
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \'\fIU\'\fR,   \fIap\fR(\fIi\fR + (\fIj\fR-1)\fIj\fR/2) = \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIj\fR) for 1\(<= \fIi\fR \(<= \fIj\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fI ap\fR(\fIi\fR + (\fIj\fR-1)(2\fIn\fR-\fIj\fR)/2) = \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR, \fIj\fR) for \fIj\fR\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatps\fR\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatps\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBclatps\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzlatps\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR) 
.IP
On entry, the right hand side \fIb\fR of the triangular system.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatps\fR/\fBclatps\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatps\fR/\fBzlatps\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fInormin\fR = \fB\'Y\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an input argument and \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) contains the norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the infinity-norm, and if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR , \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the 1-norm. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIx\fR is overwritten by the solution vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBslatps\fR/\fBclatps\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdlatps\fR/\fBzlatps\fR.
.IP
The scaling factor \fIs\fR for the triangular system as described above. 
.IP
If \fIscale\fR = 0, the matrix \fIA\fR is singular or badly scaled, and the vector \fIx\fR is an exact or approximate solution to \fIA*x\fR = 0.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
If \fInormin\fR =  \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an output argument and \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) returns the 1-norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0:  successful exit
.IP
< 0:  if \fIinfo\fR = -\fIk\fR, the \fIk\fR-th argument had an illegal value
