.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LoadStreamF 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
LoadStreamF \- Creates new stream and reads stream descriptive data from binary file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fBerrstatus\fR = \fBvslloadstreamf\fR( \fIstream\fR, \fIfname\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fBerrstatus\fR = \fBvslLoadStreamF\fR( \fI&stream\fR, \fIfname\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBfname\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBCHARACTER(*)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBchar*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: File name specified as a C-style null-terminated string
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'File name specified as a Fortran-style character string
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE(VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: Descriptor of a new random stream
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'Pointer to a new random stream
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBerrstatus\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Error status of the operation
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK, VSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
\fBfname\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulOPEN\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in opening the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulWRITE\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in writing the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulCLOSE\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in closing the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulMEM\(ulFAILURE\fR
.NL
System cannot allocate memory for internal needs.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulFILE\(ulFORMAT\fR
.NL
Unknown file format.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulUNSUPPORTED\(ulFILE\(ulVER\fR
.NL
File format version is unsupported.
