.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH mkl\(ulddiasymv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
mkl\(ulddiasymv \- Computes matrix - vector product of a sparse symmetrical matrix stored in the diagonal format with one-based indexing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fBcall mkl\(ulddiasymv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIval\fR, \fIlval\fR, \fIidiag\fR, \fIndiag\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fBmkl\(ulddiasymv\fR(\fI&uplo\fR, \fI&m\fR, \fIval\fR, \fI&lval\fR, \fIidiag\fR, \fI&ndiag\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
Parameter descriptions are common for all implemented interfaces with the exception of data types that refer here to the Fortran 77 standard types. Data types specific to the different interfaces are described in the section \fB``Interfaces''\fR below.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the upper or low triangle of the matrix \fIA\fR is used.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the upper triangle of the matrix \fIA\fR is used.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the low triangle of the matrix \fIA\fR is used.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Two-dimensional array of size \fIlval\fR by \fIndiag\fR, contains non-zero diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR. Refer to \fIvalues\fR array description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBlval\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Leading dimension of \fIval\fR, \fIlval\fR\(>=\fIm\fR. Refer to \fIlval\fR description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBidiag\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array of length \fIndiag\fR, contains the distances between main diagonal and each non-zero diagonals in the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
Refer to \fIdistance\fR array description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBndiag\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of non-zero diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR is \fIm\fR.
.IP
On entry, the array \fIx\fR must contain the vector \fIx\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBy\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least \fIm\fR.
.IP
On exit, the array \fIy\fR must contain the vector \fIy\fR. 
.SH INTERFACES
.PP

.PP
\fBFortran 77:\fR
.br
SUBROUTINE mkl\(ulddiasymv(uplo, m, val, lval, idiag, ndiag, x, y)
.br
CHARACTER*1   uplo
.br
INTEGER       m, lval, ndiag
.br
INTEGER      idiag(*)
.br
REAL*8        val(lval,*), x(*), y(*)
.PP
\fBC:\fR
.br
.PP
.br
void mkl\(ulddiasymv(char \fI*uplo\fR, int \fI*m\fR, double  \fI*val\fR, int \fI*lval\fR,
.br
.br
int \fI*idiag\fR, int \fI*ndiag\fR, double \fI*x\fR, double \fI*y\fR);
