.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH mkl\(ulddiamm 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
mkl\(ulddiamm \- Computes matrix-matrix product of a sparse matrix stored in the diagonal format with one-based indexing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fBcall mkl\(ulddiamm\fR(\fItransa\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fImatdescra\fR, \fIval\fR, \fIlval\fR, \fIidiag\fR, \fIndiag\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fBmkl\(ulddiamm\fR(\fI&transa\fR, \fI&m\fR, \fI&n\fR, \fI&k\fR, \fI&alpha\fR, \fImatdescra\fR, \fIval\fR, \fI&lval\fR, \fIidiag\fR, \fI&ndiag\fR, \fIb\fR, \fI&ldb\fR, \fI&beta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fI&ldc\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
Parameter descriptions are common for all implemented interfaces with the exception of data types that refer here to the Fortran 77 standard types. Data types specific to the different interfaces are described in the section \fB``Interfaces''\fR below.
.TP 10
\fBtransa\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the operation.
.IP
If \fItransa\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then  \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR,
.IP
If \fItransa\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, then  \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\'\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of columns of the matrix \fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBmatdescra\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER\fR. Array of six elements, specifies properties of the matrix used for operation. Only first four array elements are used, their possible values are given in the ``Possible Values of the Parameter \fImatdescra\fR (\fIdescra\fR)''.
.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Two-dimensional array of size \fIlval\fR by \fIndiag\fR, contains non-zero diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR. Refer to \fIvalues\fR array description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBlval\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Leading dimension of \fIval\fR, \fIlval\fR\(>=\fIm\fR. Refer to \fIlval\fR description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBidiag\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array of length \fIndiag\fR, contains the distances between main diagonal and each non-zero diagonals in the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
Refer to \fIdistance\fR array description in Diagonal Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBndiag\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of non-zero diagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldb\fR, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry with \fItransa\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, the leading \fIk\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR, otherwise the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIb\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program.
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Specifies the scalar \fIbeta\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldc\fR, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the matrix \fIC\fR, otherwise the leading \fIk\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the matrix \fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIc\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the matrix (\fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR) or (\fIalpha\fR*\fIA\'\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR).
.SH INTERFACES
.PP

.PP
\fBFortran 77:\fR
.br
SUBROUTINE mkl\(ulddiamm(transa, m, n, k, alpha, matdescra, val, lval,
.br
idiag, ndiag, b, ldb, beta, c, ldc)
.br
CHARACTER*1   transa
.br
CHARACTER     matdescra(*)
.br
INTEGER       m, n, k, ldb, ldc, lval, ndiag
.br
INTEGER      idiag(*)
.br
REAL*8        alpha, beta
.br
REAL*8        val(lval,*), b(ldb,*), c(ldc,*)
.PP
\fBC:\fR
.br
.PP
.br
void mkl\(ulddiamm(char \fI*transa\fR, int \fI*m\fR, int \fI*n\fR, int \fI*k\fR, double \fI*alpha\fR,
.br
.br
char \fI*matdescra\fR, double \fI*val\fR, int \fI*lval\fR, int \fI*idiag\fR, int \fI*ndiag\fR,
.br
double \fI*b\fR, int \fI*ldb\fR, double \fI*beta\fR, double \fI*c\fR, int \fI*ldc\fR);
