.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH mkl\(uldskymm 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
mkl\(uldskymm \- Computes matrix-matrix product of a sparse matrix stored using the skyline storage scheme with one-based indexing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fBcall mkl\(uldskymm\fR(\fItransa\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fImatdescra\fR, \fIval\fR, \fIpntr\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIbeta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fBmkl\(uldskymm\fR(\fI&transa\fR, \fI&m\fR, \fI&n\fR, \fI&k\fR, \fI&alpha\fR, \fImatdescra\fR, \fIval\fR, \fIpntr\fR, \fIb\fR, \fI&ldb\fR, \fI&beta\fR, \fIc\fR, \fI&ldc\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
Parameter descriptions are common for all implemented interfaces with the exception of data types that refer here to the Fortran 77 standard types. Data types specific to the different interfaces are described in the section \fB``Interfaces''\fR below.
.TP 10
\fBtransa\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the operation.
.IP
If \fItransa\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR,
.IP
If \fItransa\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'t\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR or \fB\'c\'\fR, then \fIC\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIA\'\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR,
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of rows of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of columns of the matrix \fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Number of columns of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBmatdescra\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER\fR. Array of six elements, specifies properties of the matrix used for operation. Only first four array elements are used, their possible values are given in the ``Possible Values of the Parameter \fImatdescra\fR''.
.IP

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Array containing the set of elements of the matrix \fIA\fR in the skyline profile form. 
.IP
If \fImatdescrsa\fR(2)= \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIval\fR contains elements from the low triangle of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
If \fImatdescrsa\fR(2)= \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIval\fR contains elements from the upper triangle of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
Refer to \fIvalues\fR array description in Skyline Storage Schemefor more details.
.TP 10
\fBpntr\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array of length (\fIm\fR+\fIm\fR) for lower triangle, and (\fIk\fR+\fIk\fR) for upper triangle.
.IP
It contains the indices specifying in the \fIval\fR the positions of the first element in each row (column) of the matrix \fIA\fR. Refer to \fIpointers\fR array description in Skyline Storage Scheme for more details.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldb\fR, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry with \fItransa\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, the leading \fIk\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR, otherwise the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIb\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program.
.TP 10
\fBbeta\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. Specifies the scalar \fIbeta\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL*8\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldc\fR, \fIn\fR).
.IP
On entry, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the matrix \fIC\fR, otherwise the leading \fIk\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIc\fR must contain the matrix \fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIc\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the matrix (\fIalpha\fR*\fIA\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR) or (\fIalpha\fR*\fIA\'\fR*\fIB\fR + \fIbeta\fR*\fIC\fR).
.SH INTERFACES
.PP

.PP
\fBFortran 77:\fR
.br
SUBROUTINE mkl\(uldskymm(transa, m, n, k, alpha, matdescra, val, pntr, b,
.br
ldb, beta, c, ldc)
.br
CHARACTER*1   transa
.br
CHARACTER     matdescra(*)
.br
INTEGER       m, n, k, ldb, ldc
.br
INTEGER       pntr(*)
.br
REAL*8        alpha, beta
.br
REAL*8        val(*), b(ldb,*), c(ldc,*)
.PP
\fBC:\fR
.br
.PP
.br
void mkl\(uldskymm(char \fI*transa\fR, int \fI*m\fR, int \fI*n\fR, int \fI*k\fR, double \fI*alpha\fR,
.br
.br
char \fI*matdescra\fR, double \fI*val\fR, int \fI*pntr\fR, double \fI*b\fR, int \fI*ldb\fR,
.br
double \fI*beta\fR, double \fI*c\fR, int \fI*ldc\fR);
