.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH NegBinomial 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
NegBinomial \- Generates random numbers with negative binomial distribution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvirngnegbinomial\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIp\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBviRngNegbinomial\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIp\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBmethod\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Generation method. The specific value is: 
.br
\fBVSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulINEGBINOMIAL\(ulNBAR\fR
.br
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE (VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: descriptor of the stream state structure.
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'pointer to the stream state structure
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBn\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Number of random values to be generated
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBa\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBdouble\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'The first distribution parameter \fIa\fR
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBp\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBdouble\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'The second distribution parameter \fBp\fR
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBr\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Vector of \fIn\fR random values with negative binomial distribution.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK\fR, \fBVSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
\fBstream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\fR
.NL
\fIstream\fR is not a valid random stream.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulUPDATE\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns an invalid number of updated entries in a buffer, that is, < 0 or > \fBnmax\fR.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNO\(ulNUMBERS\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns 0 as the number of updated entries in a buffer.
