.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?orgql 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?orgql \- Generates the real matrix Q of the QL factorization formed by \fB?geqlf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sorgql\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dorgql\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall orgql\fR(\fIa\fR, \fItau\fR[,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows of the matrix \fIQ\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns of the matrix \fIQ\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= \fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of elementary reflectors whose product defines the matrix \fIQ\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= \fIk\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBtau\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsorgql\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdorgql\fR
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*), \fItau\fR(*).
.IP
On entry, the (\fIn\fR - \fIk\fR + \fIi\fR)th column of \fIa\fR must \fIcontain the vector which\fRdefines the elementary reflector \fIH\fR(\fIi\fR), for \fIi\fR = 1,2,...,\fIk\fR, as returned by \fBsgeqlf\fR/\fBdgeqlf\fR in the last \fIk\fR columns of its array argument \fIa\fR; \fItau\fR(\fIi\fR) \fImust contain the scalar factor of the elementary\fRreflector \fIH\fR(\fIi\fR), as returned by \fBsgeqlf\fR/\fBdgeqlf\fR;
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, \fIk\fR).\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array; at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIQ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBorgql\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIk\fR).
