.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pbequ 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pbequ \- Computes row and column scaling factors intended to equilibrate a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite band matrix and reduce its condition number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spbequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpbequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpbequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpbequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pbequ\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIs\fR[,\fIscond\fR] [,\fIamax\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is packed in the array \fIab\fR: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIab\fR stores the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIab\fR stores the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals or subdiagonals in the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIkd\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspbequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpbequ\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpbequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpbequ\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldab\fR,*).  
.IP
The array \fIap\fR contains either the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of the array \fIab\fR; \fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkd\fR +1.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the array \fIs\fR contains the scale factors for  \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIscond\fR contains the ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(i) to the largest \fIs\fR(i).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Absolute value of the largest element of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR is nonpositive.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpbequ\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
