.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pbstf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pbstf \- Computes a split Cholesky factorization of a real symmetric or complex Hermitian positive-definite banded matrix used in \fB?sbgst\fR/\fB?hbgst\fR .
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spbstf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpbstf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpbstf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpbstf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pbstf\fR(\fIb\fR[, \fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIbb\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIB\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIbb\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIB\fR
.IP
(\fIkb\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBbb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspbstf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpbstf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpbstf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpbstf\fR.
.IP
\fIbb\fR (\fIldbb\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the matrix \fIB\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIbb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldbb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIbb\fR; must be at least \fIkb\fR+1.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBbb\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten by the elements of the split Cholesky factor \fIS\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the factorization could not be completed, because the updated element \fIb\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) would be the square root of a negative number; hence the matrix \fIB\fR is not positive-definite. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpbstf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIbb\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIB\fR of size (\fIkb+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
