.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pbsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pbsv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a symmetric or Hermitian positive-definite band matrix A and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spbsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpbsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpbsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpbsv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pbsv\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fIuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of \fIA\fR is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals of the matrix \fIA\fR if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, or the number of subdiagonals if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR;\fIkd\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspbsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpbsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpbsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpbsv\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR, *), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). The array \fIab\fR contains the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR; \fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkd\fR +1.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
The upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR (in band storage) is overwritten by the Cholesky factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR, in the same storage format as \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the leading minor of order \fIi\fR (and therefore the matrix \fIA\fR itself) is not positive-definite, so the factorization could not be completed, and the solution has not been computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpbsv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
