.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pbtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pbtrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a  Cholesky-factored symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pbtrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates how the input matrix \fIA\fR has been factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangular factor is stored in \fIab\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangular factor is stored in \fIab\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals or subdiagonals in the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIkd\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpbtrs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIab\fR(\fIldab\fR,*),\fI b\fR(\fIldb\fR,*).
.IP
The array \fIab\fR contains the Cholesky factor, as returned by the factorization routine, in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR), and the second dimension of \fIb\fR at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR; \fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkd\fR +1.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpbtrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
