.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pbtrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pbtrf \- Computes the Cholesky factorization of a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spbtrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpbtrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpbtrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpbtrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pbtrf\fR( \fIa\fR[, \fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored in the array \fIab\fR, and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of \fIA\fR is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of superdiagonals or subdiagonals in the matrix \fIA\fR(\fIkd\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpbtrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fI\fR,*).  The array \fIap\fR contains either the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage (see Matrix Storage Schemes). The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR. (\fIldab\fR\(>=\fIkd\fR + 1)
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
The upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR (in band storage) is overwritten by the Cholesky factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the leading minor of order \fIi\fR (and therefore the matrix \fIA\fR itself) is not positive-definite, and the factorization could not be completed.  This may indicate an error in forming the matrix \fIA\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpbtrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd\fR+1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
