.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?gbtrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?gbtrf \- Computes the \fILU\fR factorization of a general n-by-n banded distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgbtrf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIbwl\fR, \fIbwu\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgbtrf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIbwl\fR, \fIbwu\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgbtrf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIbwl\fR, \fIbwu\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgbtrf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIbwl\fR, \fIbwu\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of rows and columns in the distributed submatrix \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR); \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBbwl\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of sub-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR
.IP
( 0 \(<= \fIbwl\fR \(<= \fIn-1\fR ). 
.TP 10
\fBbwu\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of super-diagonals within the band of \fIA\fR
.IP
( 0 \(<= \fIbwu\fR \(<= \fIn-1\fR ). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgbtrf\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory  to an array of local dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOC\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1) where 
.IP
\fIlld\(ula\fR\(>= 2*\fIbwl\fR + 2*\fIbwu +1\fR. 
.IP
Contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR distributed banded matrix \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR) to be factored. 
.TP 10
\fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The index in the global array \fIA\fR that points to the start of the matrix to be operated on ( which may be either all of \fIA\fR or a submatrix of \fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 501, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 7;
.IP
else if \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 1, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 9.
.TP 10
\fBlaf\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIaf\fR.   
.IP
Must be \fIlaf\fR\(>= (\fBNB\fR+\fIbwu\fR)*(\fIbwl\fR+\fIbwu\fR)+6*(\fIbwl\fR+\fIbwu\fR)*(\fIbwl\fR+2\fI*bwu\fR).
.IP
If \fIlaf\fR is not large enough, an error code will be returned and the minimum acceptable size will be returned in \fIaf\fR(1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local) Same type as \fIa\fR. Workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR .
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the \fIwork\fR array (\fIlwork\fR\(>= 1). If \fIlwork\fR is too small, the minimal acceptable size will be returned in \fIwork\fR(1) and an error code is returned. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, this array contains details of the factorization.  Note that additional permutations are performed on the matrix, so that the factors returned are different from those returned by \fBLAPACK\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIipiv\fR must be \(>=\fIdesca\fR(\fBNB\fR). 
.IP
Contains pivot indices for local factorizations. Note that you \fIshould not alter\fRthe contents of this array between factorization and solve.
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgbtrf\fR.
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIlaf\fR). 
.IP
Auxiliary Fillin space. Fillin is created during the factorization routine \fBp?gbtrf\fR and this is stored in \fIaf\fR. 
.IP
Note that if a linear system is to be solved using p?gbtrs after the factorization routine, \fIaf\fR must not be altered after the factorization.
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR> 0: 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fBk\fR \(<= \fBNPROCS\fR, the submatrix stored on processor \fIinfo\fR and factored locally was not nonsingular, and the factorization was not completed. If \fIinfo\fR = \fBk\fR > \fBNPROCS\fR, the submatrix stored on processor \fIinfo\fR-\fBNPROCS\fR representing interactions with other processors was not nonsingular, and the factorization was not completed.
