.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?gecon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?gecon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a general distributed matrix in either the 1-norm or the infinity-norm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgecon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgecon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgecon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgecon\fR( \fInorm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the 1-norm condition number or the infinity-norm condition  number is required.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR, then the 1-norm is used;
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then the infinity-norm is used.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgecon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgecon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgecon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgecon\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the factors \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR from the factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIP\fR\fI*L*\fR\fIU\fR; the unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors, \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR, the 1-norm of the original distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR);
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the infinity-norm of the original distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgecon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgecon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgecon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgecon\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR of dimension (\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
\fIFor real flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+2*\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1, ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR)),         \fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1, ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR))).
.IP
\fIFor complex flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR),            \fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+ \fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR))).
.IP
\fILOCr\fR  and \fILOCc\fR values can be computed using the ScaLAPACK tool function \fBnumroc\fR; \fBNPROW\fR and \fBNPCOL\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIliwork\fR). Used in real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR; used in real flavors only. Must be at least
.IP
\fIliwork\fR\(>=\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBREAL\fR for \fBpcgecon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpzgecon\fR
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIlrwork\fR). Used in complex flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBlrwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIrwork\fR; used in complex flavors only. Must be at least
.IP
\fIlrwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR)).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The reciprocal of the condition number of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR). See Description.
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fIiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIiwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIliwork\fR required for optimum performance (for real flavors).
.TP 10
\fIrwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIrwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlrwork\fR required for optimum performance (for complex flavors).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
