.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?gehrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?gehrd \- Reduces a general matrix to upper Hessenberg form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgehrd\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgehrd\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgehrd\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgehrd\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIilo\fR, \fIihi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBilo\fR, \fBihi\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
It is assumed that sub(\fIA\fR) is already upper triangular in rows \fIia\fR:\fIia\fR+\fIilo\fR-2 and \fIia\fR+\fIihi\fR:\fIia\fR+\fIn\fR-1 and columns \fIja\fR:\fIja\fR+\fIilo\fR-2 and \fIja\fR+\fIihi\fR:\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1. (See \fIApplication Notes\fRbelow). 
.IP
If \fIn\fR > 0, 1\(<=\fIilo\fR\(<=\fIihi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR; otherwise set \fIilo\fR = 1, \fIihi\fR = \fIn\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) \fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgehrd\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOC\fR\fIc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR general distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be reduced.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgehrd\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR, dimension of the array \fIwork. lwork\fR is local input and must be at least
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBNB\fR*\fBNB\fR + \fBNB\fR*\fBmax\fR(\fIihip\fR+1, \fIihlp\fR+\fIinlq\fR)
.IP
where \fBNB\fR = \fImb\(ula\fR = \fInb\(ula\fR, 
.IP
\fIiroffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIia\fR-1, \fBNB\fR), 
.IP
\fIicoffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIja\fR-1, \fBNB\fR), 
.IP
\fIioff\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIilo\fR-2, \fBNB\fR), \fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), \fIihip\fR = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIihi\fR+\fIiroffa\fR, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), 
.IP
\fIilrow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIilo\fR-1, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), 
.IP
\fIihlp\fR = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIihi\fR-\fIilo\fR+\fIioff\fR+1, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIilrow\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), 
.IP
\fIilcol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIilo\fR-1, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIcsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR), 
.IP
\fIinlq\fR = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIn\fR-\fIilo\fR+\fIioff\fR+1, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIilcol\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR), 
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool functions; \fBMYROW\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fBNPROW\fR and \fBNPCOL\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then \fIlwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the upper triangle and the first subdiagonal of sub(\fIA\fR)are overwritten with the upper Hessenberg matrix \fIH\fR, and the elements below the first subdiagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors. 
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
(local). \fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgehrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgehrd\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-2). 
.IP
The scalar factors of the elementary reflectors (see \fIApplication Notes\fRbelow). Elements \fIja\fR:\fIja\fR+\fIilo\fR-2 and \fIja\fR+\fIihi\fR:\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-2 of \fItau\fR are set to zero. \fItau\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: the execution is successful.
.IP
< 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi\fR* 100+\fIj\fR), if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
