.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?geql2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?geql2 \- Computes a QL factorization of a general rectangular matrix (unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgeql2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgeql2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgeql2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgeql2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of rows to be operated on, that is, the number of rows of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR).  (\fIm\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of columns to be operated on, that is, the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzgeql2\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR (\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR distributed matrix  sub(\fIA\fR) which is to be factored.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzgeql2\fR. 
.IP
This is a workspace array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR is local input and must be at least \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fImp\fR0 + max(1, \fInq\fR0), 
.IP
where\fI iroff\fR = mod(\fIia\fR-1, \fImb\(ula\fR), \fIicoff\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIja\fR-1, \fInb\(ula\fR),\fI\fR
.IP
\fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fInprow\fR), 
.IP
\fIiacol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIja\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIcsrc\(ula\fR, \fInpcol\fR), 
.IP
\fImp\fR0   = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIm\fR+\fIiroff\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fInprow\fR), 
.IP
\fInq\fR0   = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIn\fR+\fIicoff\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIiacol\fR, \fInpcol\fR),
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool functions; \fImyrow\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fInprow\fR, and \fInpcol\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR. 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then \fIlwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
On exit, 
.IP
if \fIm \fR\(>= \fIn\fR, the lower triangle of the distributed submatrix \fIA\fR(\fIia+m-n\fR:\fIia+m\fR-1, \fIja\fR:\fIja+n\fR-1) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular matrix \fIL\fR; 
.IP
if \fIm\fR \(<= \fIn\fR, the elements on and below the (\fIn-m\fR)-th superdiagonal contain the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower trapezoidal matrix \fIL\fR; the remaining elements, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal/ unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgeql2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzgeql2\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fI LOCc\fR(\fIja+n\fR-1). This array contains the scalar factors of the elementary reflectors. \fItau\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) returns the minimal and optimal \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. if \fIinfo\fR < 0: If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had  an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR),                     if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
