.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?gesv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?gesv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a square distributed matrix and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgesv\fR(\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgesv\fR(\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgesv\fR(\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgesv\fR(\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows  and columns to be operated on, that is, the order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right hand sides, that is, the number of columns of the distributed submatrices \fIB\fR and \fIX\fR(\fInrhs\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgesv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgesv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgesv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgesv\fR. 
.IP
Pointers into the local memory  to arrays of local dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) and \fIb\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIjb+nrhs-1\fR)), respectively.
.IP
On entry, the array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be factored. 
.IP
On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the right hand side distributed matrix sub(\fIB\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of sub(\fIB\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the factors \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR from the factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIP\fR*\fIL\fR*\fIU\fR; the unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored .
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIipiv\fR is (\fILOCr\fR(\fIm\(ula\fR\fB)+\fR\fImb\(ula\fR). 	This array contains  the pivoting information. The (local) row \fBi\fR of the matrix was interchanged with the (global) row \fIipiv\fR(\fBi\fR). 
.IP
This array is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi-\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a  scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR> 0: 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR, \fIU\fR(\fIia+k-1\fR,\fIja+k-1\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization has been completed, but the factor \fIU\fR is exactly singular, so the solution could not be computed.
