.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?getrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?getrf \- Computes the \fILU\fR factorization of a general m-by-n distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgetrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgetrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgetrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgetrf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of rows in the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR); \fIm\fR\(>=0. 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of columns in the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR); \fIn\fR\(>=0. 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgetrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgetrf\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory  to an array of local dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
Contains the local pieces of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be factored. 
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR(\fIia:ia+n-1\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by local pieces of the factors \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR from the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*L*U\fR. The unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored. 
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIipiv\fR is (\fILOCr\fR(\fIm\(ula\fR)+ \fImb\(ula\fR). 
.IP
This array contains the pivoting information: local row \fIi\fR was interchanged with global row \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR). This array is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: if the \fIi-\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fIu\fR is 0. The factorization has been completed, but the factor \fIU\fR is exactly singular. Division by zero will occur if you use the factor \fIU\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
