.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?getrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?getrs \- Solves a system of distributed linear equations with a general square matrix, using the \fILU\fR factorization computed by \fBp?getrf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgetrs\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgetrs\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgetrs\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgetrs\fR(\fItrans\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR) *\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of linear equations;  the order of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right hand sides; the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIB\fR) (\fInrhs\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgetrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzgetrs\fR. 
.IP
Pointers into the local memory  to arrays of local dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) and \fIb\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIjb+nrhs-1\fR)), respectively. 
.IP
On entry, the array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the factors \fIL\fR and \fIU\fR from the factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIP*L*U\fR; the unit diagonal elements of \fIL\fR are not stored. On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the right hand sides sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIipiv\fR is (\fILOCr\fR(\fIm\(ula\fR) + \fImb\(ula\fR). This array contains the pivoting information:   local row \fBi\fR of the matrix was interchanged with the global row \fIipiv\fR(\fBi\fR). 
.IP
This array is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIB\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, overwritten by the solution distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. \fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
