.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?getf2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?getf2 \- Computes an LU factorization of a general matrix, using partial pivoting with row interchanges (local blocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psgetf2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdgetf2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcgetf2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzgetf2\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of rows to be operated on, that is, the number of rows of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR).  (\fIm\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global).\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns to be operated on, that is, the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). (\fInb\(ula \fR- \fBmod\fR(\fIja\fR-1, \fInb\(ula\fR)\(>=\fIn\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcgetf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzgetf2\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR distributed matrix  sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fILOCr\fR(\fIm\(ula\fR) + \fImb\(ula\fR). This array contains the pivoting information. \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) -> The global row that local row \fIi\fR was swapped with. This array is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0:  successful exit. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.RS
.IP \(bu
if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR), 
.IP \(bu
if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI- i\fR.
.RE
.IP
If \fIinfo \fR> 0:  If \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR, \fIu\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIk\fR-1, \fIja\fR+\fIk\fR-1 ) is exactly zero. The factorization has been completed, but the factor \fIu\fR is exactly singular, and division by zero will occur if it is used to solve a system of equations.
