.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?hetrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?hetrd \- Reduces a Hermitian matrix to Hermitian tridiagonal form by a unitary similarity transformation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pchetrd\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzhetrd\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix sub(\fIA\fR) is stored:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, upper triangular 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, lower triangular 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpchetrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzhetrd\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the Hermitian distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).  
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular part of the matrix, and its strictly lower triangular part is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular part of the matrix, and its strictly upper triangular part is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpchetrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzhetrd\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR, dimension of \fIwork\fR, must be at least: 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR(\fBNB\fR*(\fInp\fR +1), 3*\fBNB\fR)
.IP
where \fBNB\fR =  \fImb\(ula\fR = \fInb\(ula\fR, 
.IP
\fInp\fR = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIn\fR, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), 
.IP
\fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR, \fBNB\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPROW\fR). 
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool functions; \fBMYROW\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fBNPROW\fR and \fBNPCOL\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then \fIlwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the diagonal and first superdiagonal of sub(\fIA\fR) are overwritten by the corresponding elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR, and the elements above the first superdiagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors;if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the diagonal and first subdiagonal of sub(\fIA\fR) are overwritten by the corresponding elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR, and the elements below the first subdiagonal, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the unitary matrix \fIQ\fR as a product of elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpchetrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpzhetrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1). The diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR: 
.IP
\fId\fR(\fIi\fR)= \fIA\fR(\fIi,i\fR).
.IP
\fId\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpchetrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpzhetrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1) if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR; \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-2) - otherwise. 
.IP
The off-diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR: 
.IP
\fIe\fR(\fIi\fR)= \fIA\fR(\fIi,i\fR+1) if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIe\fR(\fIi\fR)= \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR+1,\fIi\fR) if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
\fIe\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
(local) \fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpchetrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzhetrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1). This array contains the scalar factors \fItau\fR of the elementary reflectors. \fItau\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: the execution is successful.
.IP
< 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR), if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
