.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?laconsb 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?laconsb \- Looks for two consecutive small subdiagonal elements.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslaconsb\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIi\fR, \fIl\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIh44\fR, \fIh33\fR, \fIh43h34\fR, \fIbuf\fR, \fIlwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlaconsb\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIi\fR, \fIl\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIh44\fR, \fIh33\fR, \fIh43h34\fR, \fIbuf\fR, \fIlwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(global). \fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaconsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlaconsb\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdesca\fR (\fIlld\(ul\fR),*). On entry, the Hessenberg matrix whose tridiagonal part is being scanned. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBi\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The global location of the bottom of the unreduced submatrix of \fIA\fR. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBl\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The global location of the top of the unreduced submatrix of \fIA\fR. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBh44\fR, \fBh33\fR, \fBh43h34\fR
.NL
(global)\fI. \fR\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaconsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlaconsb\fR
.IP
These three values are for the double shift QR iteration.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
This must be at least 7*ceil(ceil( (\fIi\fR-l)/\fIhbl\fR )/lcm(\fInprow\fR, \fInpcol\fR)). Here \fBlcm\fR is least common multiple and \fInprowxnpcol\fR is the logical grid size.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global). On exit, this yields the starting location of the \fIQR\fR double shift. This will satisfy: \fI\fR
.IP
\fIl\fR \(<= \fIm\fR \(<= \fIi\fR-2.
.TP 10
\fBbuf\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaconsb\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlaconsb\fR
.IP
Array of size \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(global). On exit, \fIlwork\fR is the size of the work buffer.
