.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lacp3 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lacp3 \- Copies from a global parallel array into a local replicated array or vice versa.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslacp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIii\fR, \fIjj\fR, \fIrev\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlacp3\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIi\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIii\fR, \fIjj\fR, \fIrev\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
\fIm\fR is the order of the square submatrix that is copied.
.IP
\fIm\fR\(>= 0. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBi\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR, \fIi\fR) is the global location that the copying starts from. Unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(global). \fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacp3\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdesca\fR(\fIlld\(ul\fR),*). On entry, the parallel matrix to be copied into or from.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacp3\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacp3\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldb\fR, \fIm\fR). If \fIrev\fR = 0, this is the global portion of the array \fIA\fR(\fIi\fR:\fIi\fR+\fIm\fR-1, \fIi\fR:\fIi\fR+\fIm\fR-1). If \fIrev\fR = 1, this is the unchanged on exit.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The leading dimension of \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBii\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER. \fRBy using \fIrev\fR 0 and 1, data can be sent out and returned again. If \fIrev\fR = 0, then \fIii\fR is destination row index for the node(s) receiving the replicated \fIB\fR. If \fIii \fR\(>= 0, \fIjj\fR \(>= 0, then node (\fIii\fR, \fIjj\fR) receives the data. If \fIii\fR = -1, \fIjj \fR\(>= 0, then all rows in column \fIjj\fR receive the data. If \fIii \fR\(>= 0, \fIjj\fR = -1, then all cols in row \fIii\fR receive the data. f \fIii\fR = -1, \fIjj\fR = -1, then all nodes receive the data. If \fIrev\fR !=0, then \fIii\fR is the source row index for the node(s) sending the replicated \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjj\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. Similar description as \fIii\fR above.
.TP 10
\fBrev\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. Use \fIrev\fR = 0 to send global \fIA\fR into locally replicated \fIB\fR (on node (\fIii\fR, \fIjj\fR)). Use \fIrev\fR != 0 to send locally replicated \fIB\fR from node (\fIii\fR, \fIjj\fR) to its owner (which changes depending on its location in \fIA\fR) into the global \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(global). On exit, if \fIrev\fR = 1, the copied data. Unchanged on exit if \fIrev\fR = 0.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
(local).  If \fIrev\fR = 1, this is unchanged on exit.
