.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lacon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lacon \- Estimates the 1-norm of a square matrix, using the reverse communication for evaluating matrix-vector products.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslacon\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIiv\fR, \fIjv\fR, \fIdescv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlacon\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIiv\fR, \fIjv\fR, \fIdescv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclacon\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIiv\fR, \fIjv\fR, \fIdescv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlacon\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIv\fR, \fIiv\fR, \fIjv\fR, \fIdescv\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIest\fR, \fIkase\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global).\fBINTEGER\fR. The length of the distributed vectors \fIv\fR and \fIx. n \fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBv\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlacon.\fR
.IP
\fB\fRPointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION \fR\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIiv\fR-1, \fImb\(ulv\fR)). On the final return, \fIv\fR = \fIa\fR*\fIw\fR, where \fIest\fR = norm(\fIv\fR)/norm(\fIw\fR) (\fIw\fR is not returned).
.TP 10
\fBiv\fR, \fBjv\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIv\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIV\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescv\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix V.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclacon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlacon.\fR
.IP
\fB\fRPointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION \fR\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIix\fR-1, \fImb\(ulx\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBix\fR, \fBjx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIx\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIX\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescx\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix X.
.TP 10
\fBisgn\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fI LOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIix\fR-1, \fImb\(ulx\fR)). \fIisgn\fR is aligned with \fIx\fR and \fIv\fR.
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
(local). \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
On the initial call to \fBp?lacon\fR, \fIkase\fR should be 0.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
On an intermediate return, X should be overwritten by \fIA\fR*\fIX\fR, if \fIkase\fR=1, \fIA\'\fR *\fIX\fR, if \fIkase\fR=2,
.IP
\fBp?lacon\fR must be re-called with all the other parameters unchanged.
.TP 10
\fBest\fR
.NL
(global). \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors
.TP 10
\fBkase\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBINTEGER\fR. On an intermediate return, \fIkase\fR is 1 or 2, indicating whether \fIX\fR should be overwritten by \fIA\fR*\fIX,\fR  or \fIA\'\fR*\fIX\fR. On the final return from \fBp?lacon\fR, \fIkase\fR is again 0.
