.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lacpy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lacpy \- Copies all or part of one two-dimensional array to another.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslacpy\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlacpy\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclacpy\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlacpy\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global). \fBCHARACTER\fR. Specifies the part of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be copied: 
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:   Upper triangular part; the strictly lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced; 
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:   Lower triangular part; the strictly upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced. 
.IP
Otherwise: all of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) is copied.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of rows to be operated on, that is, the number of rows of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR).  (\fIm \fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of columns to be operated on, that is, the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). (\fIn\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacpy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacpy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclacpy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlacpy\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the distributed matrix  sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of sub(\fIB\fR) respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslacpy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlacpy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclacpy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlacpy\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlld\(ulb\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIjb\fR+\fIn\fR-1) ). This array  contains on exit the local pieces of the distributed matrix sub( B ) set as follows:
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIB\fR(\fIib\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIjb\fR+\fIj\fR-1) = \fIA\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIja\fR+\fIj\fR-1), 1\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIj\fR, 1\(<=\fIj\fR\(<=\fIn\fR;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIB\fR(\fIib\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIjb\fR+\fIj\fR-1) = \fIA\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIja\fR+\fIj\fR-1),\fIj\fR\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIm\fR, 1\(<=\fIj\fR\(<=\fIn\fR;
.IP
otherwise, \fIB\fR(\fIib\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIjb\fR+\fIj\fR-1) = \fIA\fR(\fIia\fR+\fIi\fR-1, \fIja\fR+\fIj\fR-1), 1\(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIm\fR, 1\(<=\fIj\fR\(<=\fIn\fR.
