.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?laevswp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?laevswp \- Moves the eigenvectors from where they are computed to ScaLAPACK standard block cyclic array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslaevswp\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIzin\fR, \fIldzi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fInvs\fR, \fIkey\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlaevswp\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIzin\fR, \fIldzi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fInvs\fR, \fIkey\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclaevswp\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIzin\fR, \fIldzi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fInvs\fR, \fIkey\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlaevswp\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIzin\fR, \fIldzi\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fInvs\fR, \fIkey\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
\fInp\fR = the number of rows local to a given process.
.PP
\fInq\fR = the number of columns local to a given process.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn \fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBzin\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlaevswp\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldzi\fR, \fInvs\fR(\fIiam\fR) ). The eigenvectors on input. Each eigenvector resides entirely in one process. Each process holds a contiguous set of \fInvs\fR(\fIiam\fR) eigenvectors. The first eigenvector which the process holds is:  sum for \fIi\fR=[0, \fIiam\fR-1) of \fInvs\fR(\fIi\fR)\fI.\fR
.TP 10
\fBldzi\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBINTEGER\fR.The leading dimension of the \fIzin\fR array.
.TP 10
\fBiz\fR, \fBjz\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.The row and column indices in the global array \fIZ\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIZ\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescz\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix Z.
.TP 10
\fBnvs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR( \fInprocs\fR+1) 
.IP
\fInvs\fR(\fIi\fR) = number of processes number of eigenvectors held by processes [0, \fIi\fR-1) \fI\fR
.IP
\fInvs\fR(1) = number of eigen vectors held by[0, 1 -1) = 0\fI\fR
.IP
\fInvs\fR(\fInprocs\fR+1)= number of eigen vectors held by [0, \fInprocs\fR)= total number of eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBkey\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). Indicates the actual index (after sorting) for each of the    eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fRfor \fBpdlaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlaevswp\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlrwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlrwork\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBINTEGER\fR. Dimension of \fIwork.\fR
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION \fRfor \fBpdlaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclaevswp\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlaevswp\fR. 
.IP
Array, global \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR), local \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdescz\fR(\fIdlen\(ul\fR), \fInq\fR). The eigenvectors on output.  The eigenvectors are distributed in a block cyclic manner in both dimensions, with a block size of \fInb\fR.
