.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lansy 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lansy \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, Frobenius norm, infinity-norm, or the largest absolute value of any element, of a real symmetric or a complex Hermitian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpslansy\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpdlansy\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpclansy\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpzlansy\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpclanhe\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpzlanhe\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR.  Specifies what value is returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(ij))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR, it s not a matrix norm.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the  symmetric matrix sub(\fIA\fR) is to be referenced.
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is referenced,
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is referenced.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of columns to be operated on i.e the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). When \fIn\fR = 0, \fBp?lansy\fR is set to zero. \fIn\fR \(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslansy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlansy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclansy\fR, \fBpclanhe\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlansy\fR, \fBpzlanhe\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory  to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) containing the local pieces of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR). 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular matrix whose norm is to be computed, and the strictly lower triangular part of this matrix is not referenced.  If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular matrix whose norm is to be computed, and the  strictly upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslansy\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlansy\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclansy\fR, \fBpclanhe\fR\fB\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlansy\fR, \fBpzlanhe\fR. 
.IP
Array \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlwork\fR).
.IP
\fIlwork\fR \(>= 0 if \fInorm\fR = \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\'\fR (not referenced), 
.IP
2*\fInq\fR0+\fInp\fR0+\fIldw\fR if \fInorm\fR = \'1\', \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\'\fR, \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\'\fR,
.IP
where \fIldw\fR is given by:
.IP
if( \fInprow\fR.\fIne\fR.\fInpcol\fR ) then
.IP
\fIldw\fR = \fImb\(ula\fR*ceil(ceil(\fInp\fR0/\fImb\(ula\fR)/(\fIlcm\fR/\fInprow\fR))
.IP
else
.IP
\fIldw\fR = 0 
.IP
end if
.IP
0 if \fInorm\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'e\'\fR (not referenced),
.IP
where \fIlcm\fR is the least common multiple of \fInprow\fR and \fInpcol\fR,\fI lcm\fR = ilcm( \fInprow\fR, \fInpcol\fR ) and \fBceil\fR denotes the ceiling operation (\fBiceil\fR).
.IP
\fIiroffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIia\fR-1, \fImb\(ula\fR ), \fIicoffa\fR = \fBmod\fR( \fIja\fR-1, \fInb\(ula\fR),
.IP
\fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fInprow\fR),
.IP
\fIiacol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIja\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIcsrc\(ula\fR, \fInpcol\fR),
.IP
\fImp\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIm\fR+\fIiroffa\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fInprow\fR),
.IP
\fInq\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIn\fR+\fIicoffa\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIiacol\fR, \fInpcol\fR),
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool functions; \fImyrow\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fInprow\fR, and \fInpcol\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
The value returned by the routine.
