.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lange 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lange \- Returns the value of the 1-norm, Frobenius norm, infinity-norm, or the largest absolute value of any element, of a general rectangular matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpslange\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpdlange\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpclange\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fIval\fR= \fBpzlange\fR(\fInorm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR.  Specifies what value is returned by the routine:
.IP
= \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBmax\fR(\fBabs\fR(\fIA\fR(ij))), largest absolute value  of the matrix \fIA\fR, it s not a matrix norm.
.IP
= \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnorm1\fR(\fIA\fR), 1-norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum column sum),
.IP
= \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormI\fR(\fIA\fR), infinity norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (maximum row sum),
.IP
= \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR  or \fB\'e\': \fR\fIval\fR = \fBnormF\fR(\fIA\fR), Frobenius norm of the matrix \fIA\fR (square root of sum of squares).
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of rows to be operated on, that is, the number of rows of the distributed submatrix sub(A). When \fIm\fR = 0, \fBp?lange\fR  is set to zero. \fIm\fR \(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of columns to be operated on, that is, the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). When \fIn\fR = 0, \fBp?lange\fR is set to zero. \fIn \fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslange\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlange\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory  to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) containing the local pieces of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix A.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslange\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclange\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlange\fR. 
.IP
Array \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlwork\fR).
.IP
\fIlwork \fR\(>= 0 if \fInorm\fR = \fB\'M\'\fR or \fB\'m\'\fR (not referenced), 
.IP
\fInq\fR0 if \fInorm\fR = \'1\', \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'o\'\fR, 
.IP
\fImp\fR0 if \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR or \fB\'i\'\fR,
.IP
0 if \fInorm\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR, \fB\'f\'\fR, \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'e\'\fR (not referenced),
.IP
where 
.IP
\fIiroffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIia\fR-1, \fImb\(ula\fR), \fIicoffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIja\fR-1, \fInb\(ula\fR),
.IP
\fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIia\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fInprow\fR),
.IP
\fIiacol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIja\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIcsrc\(ula\fR, \fInpcol\fR),
.IP
\fImp\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIm\fR+\fIiroffa\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fImyrow\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fInprow\fR),
.IP
\fInq\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIn\fR+\fIicoffa\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fIiacol\fR, \fInpcol\fR),
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool routines; \fImyrow\fR, \fImycol\fR, \fInprow\fR, and \fInpcol\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBval\fR
.NL
The value returned by the routine.
