.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?larfg 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?larfg \- Generates an elementary reflector (Householder matrix).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslarfg\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIiax\fR, \fIjax\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fItau\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlarfg\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIiax\fR, \fIjax\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fItau\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclarfg\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIiax\fR, \fIjax\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fItau\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlarfg\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIiax\fR, \fIjax\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fItau\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The global order of the elementary reflector. \fIn\fR \(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBiax\fR, \fBjax\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The global row and column indices in \fIx\fR of \fIX\fR(\fIiax\fR, \fIjax\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
(local).
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslarfg\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlarfg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclarfg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlarfg\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlld\(ulx\fR, *). This array contains the local pieces of the distributed vector sub(\fIX\fR). Before entry, the incremented array sub(\fIX\fR) must contain vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBix\fR, \fBjx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The row and column indices in the global array \fIX\fR indicating the first row and the first column of sub(\fIX\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescx\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
The global increment for the elements of \fIx\fR. Only two values of \fIincx\fR are supported in this version, namely 1 and \fIm\(ulx\fR.  \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslafg\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlafg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclafg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlafg\fR. 
.IP
On exit, \fIalpha\fR is computed in the process scope having the vector sub(\fIX\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
(local).
.IP
On exit, it is overwritten with the vector \fIv\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
(local).
.IP
\fBReal\fR for \fBpslarfg\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlarfg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclarfg\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlarfg\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fI LOCc\fR(\fIjx\fR) if \fIincx\fR = 1, and \fILOCr\fR(\fIix\fR) otherwise. This array contains the Householder scalars related to the Householder vectors.
.IP
\fItau\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
