.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?lassq 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?lassq \- Updates a sum of squares represented in scaled form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslassq\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIsumsq\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlassq\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIsumsq\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclassq\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIsumsq\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlassq\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIincx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIsumsq\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The length of the distributed vector sub(\fIx\fR ). 
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslassq\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlassq\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclassq\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlassq\fR. 
.IP
The vector for which a scaled sum of squares is computed: 
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIix\fR + (\fIjx\fR-1)*\fIm\(ulx\fR + (\fIi\fR - 1)*\fIincx\fR), 1 \(<=\fI i\fR \(<=\fI n\fR.
.TP 10
\fBix\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The row index in the global array \fIX\fR indicating the first row of sub(\fIX\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBjx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The column index in the global array \fIX\fR indicating the first column of sub(\fIX\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBdescx\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array of \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). 
.IP
The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIX\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The global increment for the elements of \fIX\fR. Only two values of \fIincx\fR are supported in this version, namely 1 and \fIm\(ulx\fR. The argument \fIincx\fR must not equal zero.
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslassq/pclassq\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlassq/pzlassq\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the value \fIscale\fR in the equation above.
.TP 10
\fBsumsq\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslassq/pclassq\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlassq/pzlassq\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the value \fIsumsq\fR in the equation above.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
On exit, \fIscale\fR is overwritten with \fIsc\fR\fIl\fR , the scaling factor for the sum of squares.
.TP 10
\fBsumsq\fR
.NL
(local). 
.IP
On exit, \fIsumsq\fR is overwritten with the value \fIsmsq,\fR the basic sum of squares from which \fIscl\fR has been factored out.
