.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?latrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?latrs \- Solves a triangular system of equations with the scale factor set to prevent overflow. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pslatrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdlatrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pclatrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzlatrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fInormin\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIix\fR, \fIjx\fR, \fIdescx\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIcnorm\fR, \fIwork\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular. 
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies the operation applied to \fIAx\fR. 
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  Solve \fIAx\fR = \fIs*b\fR (no transpose)
.IP
= \fB\'T\'\fR:  Solve \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fIx\fR = \fIs*b\fR (\fI\fRtranspose)
.IP
= \fB\'C\'\fR:  Solve \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fIx\fR = \fIs*b\fR (conjugate transpose),
.IP
where \fIs\fR - is a scale factor
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular. 
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  Non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Unit triangular
.TP 10
\fBnormin\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether \fIcnorm\fR has been set or not. 
.IP
= \fB\'Y\'\fR: \fIcnorm\fR contains the column norms on entry;
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR: \fIcnorm\fR is not set on entry.  On exit, the norms will be computed and stored in \fIcnorm\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The order of the matrix \fIA\fR.  \fIn\fR \(>= 0
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslatrs/pclatrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlatrs/pzlatrs\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). Contains the triangular matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fBU\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the array \fBa\fR contains the upper triangular matrix, and the strictly lower triangular part of \fBa\fR is not referenced.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the array \fBa\fR contains the lower triangular matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fBa\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the diagonal elements of \fBa\fR are also not referenced and are assumed to be 1.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fBa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslatrs/pclatrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlatrs/pzlatrs\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). On entry, the right hand side \fIb\fR of the triangular system.
.TP 10
\fBix\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.The row index in the global array \fIx\fR indicating the first row of sub(\fIx\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjx\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The column index in the global array \fIx\fR indicating the first column of sub(\fIx\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdescx\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslatrs/pclatrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlatrs/pzlatrs\fR.  
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). If \fInormin\fR = \fB\'Y\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an input argument and \fIcnorm\fR (\fIj\fR) contains the norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR. If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR (\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the infinity-norm, and if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) must be greater than or equal to the 1-norm.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local).
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslatrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlatrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpclatrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzlatrs\fR.  
.IP
Temporary workspace.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBX\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIx\fR is overwritten by the solution vector \fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpslatrs/pclatrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdlatrs/pzlatrs\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). The scaling factor \fIs\fR for the triangular system as described above. 
.IP
If \fIscale\fR = 0, the matrix \fIA\fR is singular or badly scaled, and the vector \fIx\fR is an exact or approximate solution to \fIAx\fR = 0.
.TP 10
\fBcnorm\fR
.NL
If \fInormin\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIcnorm\fR is an output argument and \fIcnorm\fR(\fIj\fR) returns the 1-norm of the off-diagonal part of the \fIj\fR-th column of \fIA\fR.
