.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?poequ 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?poequ \- Computes row and column scaling factors intended to equilibrate a symmetric (Hermitian) positive definite matrix and reduce its condition number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spoequ\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpoequ\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpoequ\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpoequ\fR( \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall poequ\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIs\fR[,\fIscond\fR] [,\fIamax\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspoequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpoequ\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpoequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpoequ\fR.
.IP
Array: \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR,*).
.IP
Contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR symmetric or Hermitian positive definite matrix \fIA\fR whose scaling factors are to be computed. Only diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are referenced.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the array \fIs\fR contains the scale factors for  \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIscond\fR contains the ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(i) to the largest \fIs\fR(i).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Absolute value of the largest element of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR is nonpositive.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpoequ\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
