.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?ormbr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?ormbr \- Multiplies a general matrix by one of the orthogonal matrices from a reduction to bidiagonal form determined by \fBp?gebrd\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psormbr\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIside\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIic\fR, \fIjc\fR, \fIdescc\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdormbr\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIside\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIic\fR, \fIjc\fR, \fIdescc\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR =\fB\'Q\'\fR, then \fIQ\fR or \fIQ\fR**\fIT\fR is applied. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR =\fB\'P\'\fR, then \fIP\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIT\fR is applied.
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR =\fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIQ\fR or \fIQ\fR**\fIT\fR, \fIP\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIT\fR is applied from the left. 
.IP
If \fIside\fR =\fB\'R\'\fR, then \fIQ\fR or \fIQ\fR**\fIT\fR, \fIP\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIT\fR is applied from the right.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, no transpose, \fIQ\fR or \fIP\fR is applied. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIQ\fR**\fIT\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIT\fR is applied.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the distributed matrix sub (\fIC\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in the distributed matrix sub (\fIC\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, the number of columns in the original distributed matrix reduced by \fBp?gebrd\fR;
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, the number of rows in the original distributed matrix reduced by \fBp?gebrd\fR.
.IP
Constraints: \fIk\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsormbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdormbr\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fBmin\fR(\fInq\fR,\fIk\fR)-1))
.IP
If \fIvect\fR=\fB\'Q\'\fR, and (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fInq\fR-1))
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR. 
.IP
\fInq\fR = \fIm\fR if \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, and \fInq\fR = \fIn\fR otherwise. 
.IP
The vectors which define the elementary reflectors \fIH\fR(\fIi\fR) and \fIG\fR(\fIi\fR), whose products determine the matrices \fIQ\fR and \fIP\fR, as returned by \fBp?gebrd\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, \fIlld\(ula\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR(1, \fILOCr\fR(\fIia\fR+\fInq\fR-1)); 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, \fIlld\(ula\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR(1, \fILOCr\fR(\fIia\fR+\fBmin\fR(\fInq\fR, \fIk\fR)-1)). 
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsormbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdormbr\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fBmin\fR(\fInq\fR, \fIk\fR)-1), if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, and \fILOCr\fR(\fIia\fR+\fBmin\fR(\fInq\fR, \fIk\fR)-1), if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR. 
.IP
\fItau\fR(\fIi\fR) must contain the scalar factor of the elementary reflector \fIH\fR(\fIi\fR) or \fIG\fR(\fIi\fR), which determines \fIQ\fR or \fIP\fR, as returned by \fBpdgebrd\fR in its array argument \fItauq\fR or \fItaup\fR. \fItau\fR is tied to the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
(local) \fBREAL\fR for \fBpsormbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdormbr\fR
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR (\fIjc\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
Contains the local pieces of the distributed matrix sub (\fIC\fR).
.TP 10
\fBic\fR, \fBjc\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The row and column indices in the global array \fIc\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIC\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescc\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsormbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdormbr\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR, dimension of \fIwork\fR, must be at least: 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR
.IP
\fInq\fR = \fIm\fR;
.IP
if ((\fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR and \fInq\fR\(>=\fIk\fR) or (\fIvect\fR is not equal to \fB\'Q\'\fR and \fInq\fR>\fIk\fR)), \fIiaa\fR=\fIia\fR; \fIjaa\fR=\fIja\fR; \fImi\fR=\fIm\fR; \fIni\fR=\fIn\fR; \fIicc\fR=\fIic\fR; \fIjcc\fR=\fIjc\fR; 
.IP
else 
.IP
\fIiaa\fR= \fIia\fR+1; \fIjaa\fR=\fIja\fR; \fImi\fR=\fIm\fR-1; \fIni\fR=\fIn\fR; \fIicc\fR=\fIic\fR+1; \fIjcc\fR= \fIjc\fR; 
.IP
end if
.IP
else 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, \fInq\fR = \fIn\fR;
.IP
if((\fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR and \fInq\fR\(>=\fIk\fR) or (\fIvect\fR is not equal to \fB\'Q\'\fR and \fInq\fR>\fIk\fR)), 
.IP
\fIiaa\fR=\fIia\fR; \fIjaa\fR=\fIja\fR; \fImi\fR=\fIm\fR; \fIni\fR=\fIn\fR; \fIicc\fR=\fIic\fR; \fIjcc\fR=\fIjc\fR; 
.IP
else
.IP
\fIiaa\fR= \fIia\fR; \fIjaa\fR= \fIja\fR+1; \fImi\fR= \fIm\fR; \fIni\fR= \fIn\fR-1; \fIicc\fR= \fIic\fR; \fIjcc\fR= \fIjc\fR+1; 
.IP
end if
.IP
end if 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, 
.IP
If \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR((\fInb\(ula\fR*(\fInb\(ula\fR-1))/2, (\fInqc\fR0 + \fImpc\fR0)*\fInb\(ula\fR) + \fInb\(ula\fR * \fInb\(ula\fR
.IP
else if \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR((\fInb\(ula\fR*(\fInb\(ula\fR-1))/2, (\fInqc\fR0 + \fBmax\fR(\fInpa\fR0 + \fBnumroc\fR(\fBnumroc\fR(\fIni\fR+\fIicoffc\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, 0, 0, \fBNPCOL\fR), \fInb\(ula\fR, 0, 0, \fIlcmq\fR), \fImpc\fR0))*\fInb\(ula\fR) + \fInb\(ula\fR*\fInb\(ula\fR
.IP
end if
.IP
else if \fIvect\fR is not equal to \fB\'Q\'\fR, if \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR((\fImb\(ula\fR*(\fImb\(ula\fR-1))/2, (\fImpc\fR0 + \fBmax\fR(\fImqa\fR0 + \fBnumroc\fR(\fBnumroc\fR(\fImi\fR+\fBiroffc\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, 0, 0, \fBNPROW\fR), \fImb\(ula\fR, 0, 0, \fIlcmp\fR), \fInqc\fR0))*\fImb\(ula\fR) + \fImb\(ula\fR*\fImb\(ula\fR
.IP
else if \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fBmax\fR((\fImb\(ula\fR*(\fImb\(ula\fR-1))/2, (\fImpc\fR0 + \fInqc\fR0)*\fImb\(ula\fR) + \fImb\(ula\fR*\fImb\(ula\fR
.IP
end if
.IP
end if
.IP
where \fIlcmp\fR =  \fIlcm\fR/\fBNPROW\fR, \fIlcmq\fR = \fIlcm\fR/\fBNPCOL\fR, with \fIlcm\fR = \fBilcm\fR(\fBNPROW\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR), 
.IP
\fIiroffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIiaa\fR-1, \fImb\(ula\fR), 
.IP
\fIicoffa\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIjaa\fR-1, \fInb\(ula\fR), 
.IP
\fIiarow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIiaa\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIrsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPROW\fR), 
.IP
\fIiacol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIjaa\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIcsrc\(ula\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR), 
.IP
\fImqa\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fImi\fR+\fIicoffa\fR, \fInb\(ula\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIiacol\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR),
.IP
\fInpa\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIni\fR+\fIiroffa\fR, \fImb\(ula\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIiarow\fR, \fBNPROW\fR),
.IP
\fIiroffc\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIicc\fR-1, \fImb\(ulc\fR), 
.IP
\fIicoffc\fR = \fBmod\fR(\fIjcc\fR-1, \fInb\(ulc\fR), 
.IP
\fIicrow\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIicc\fR, \fImb\(ulc\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIrsrc\(ulc\fR, \fBNPROW\fR),
.IP
\fIiccol\fR = \fBindxg2p\fR(\fIjcc\fR, \fInb\(ulc\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIcsrc\(ulc\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR), 
.IP
\fImpc\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fImi\fR+\fIiroffc\fR, \fImb\(ulc\fR, \fBMYROW\fR, \fIicrow\fR, \fBNPROW\fR),
.IP
\fInqc\fR0 = \fBnumroc\fR(\fIni\fR+\fIicoffc\fR, \fInb\(ulc\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fIiccol\fR, \fBNPCOL\fR),
.IP
\fBindxg2p\fR and \fBnumroc\fR are ScaLAPACK tool functions; \fBMYROW\fR, \fBMYCOL\fR, \fBNPROW\fR and \fBNPCOL\fR can be determined by calling the subroutine \fBblacs\(ulgridinfo\fR.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then \fIlwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIvect\fR=\fB\'Q\'\fR, sub(\fIC\fR) is overwritten by \fIQ\fR*sub(\fIC\fR), or \fIQ\'\fR*sub(\fIC\fR), or sub(\fIC\fR)*\fIQ\',\fR or sub(\fIC\fR)*\fIQ\fR; if \fIvect\fR=\fB\'P\'\fR, sub(\fIC\fR) is overwritten by \fIP\fR*sub(\fIC\fR), or \fIP\'\fR*sub(\fIC\fR), or sub(\fIC\fR)*\fIP\fR, or sub(\fIC\fR)*\fIP\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: the execution is successful.
.IP
< 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi\fR* 100+\fIj\fR), if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
