.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?pbtrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?pbtrf \- Computes the Cholesky factorization of a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite banded distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspbtrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpbtrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpbtrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpbtrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, upper triangle of \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR) is stored;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, lower triangle of \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR) is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the distributed submatrix \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR). 
.IP
(\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBbw\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  
.IP
The number of superdiagonals of the distributed matrix if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, or the number of subdiagonals if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR (\fIbw\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISON\fR for \fBpdpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpbtrf\fR.
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension 
.IP
(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the upper or lower triangle of the symmetric/Hermitian band distributed matrix \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR) to be factored.
.TP 10
\fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The index in the global array \fIA\fR that points to the start of the matrix to be operated on ( which may be either all of \fIA\fR or a submatrix of \fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 501, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 7;
.IP
else if \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 1, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 9.
.TP 10
\fBlaf\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIaf\fR.   
.IP
Must be \fIlaf\fR\(>= (\fBNB\fR+2\fI*bw\fR)\fI*bw\fR.
.TP 10
.NL
If \fIlaf\fR is not large enough, an error code will be returned and the minimum acceptable size will be returned in \fIaf\fR(1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local) Same type as \fIa\fR. Workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR .
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the \fIwork\fR array, must be \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIbw\fR**2.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR=0, contains the permuted triangular factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization of the band matrix \fIA\fR(\fI1:n\fR, \fIja:ja+n-1\fR), as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISON\fR for \fBpdpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpbtrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpbtrf\fR.
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIlaf\fR). Auxiliary Fillin space. Fillin is created during the factorization routine \fBp?pbtrf\fR and this is stored in \fIaf\fR. Note that if a linear system is to be solved using \fBp?pbtrs\fR after the factorization routine, \fIaf\fR must not be altered.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR>0: 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fBk\fR \(<= \fBNPROCS\fR, the submatrix stored on processor \fIinfo\fR and factored locally was not positive definite, and the factorization was not completed. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fBk\fR > \fBNPROCS\fR, the submatrix stored on processor \fIinfo\fR-\fBNPROCS\fR representing interactions with other processors was not nonsingular, and the factorization was not completed.
