.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?pbtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?pbtrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a  Cholesky-factored symmetric/Hermitian positive-definite band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpbtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIbw\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIaf\fR, \fIlaf\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, upper triangle of sub(\fIA\fR)  is stored;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, lower triangle of sub(\fIA\fR)  is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBbw\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of superdiagonals of the distributed matrix if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, or the number of subdiagonals if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR (\fIbw\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right hand sides; the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIB\fR)  (\fInrhs\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdpbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpbtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpbtrs\fR. 
.IP
Pointers into the local memory  to arrays of local dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) and \fIb\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fInrhs-1\fR)), respectively. 
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the permuted triangular factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIP\fR*\fIU\fR**\fIH\fR*\fIU\fR*\fIP\fR**\fIT\fR, or  sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIP\fR*\fIL\fR*\fIL\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR of the band matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fBp?pbtrf\fR. 
.IP
On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR right hand side distributed matrix sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The index in the global array \fIA\fR that points to the start of the matrix to be operated on (which may be either all of \fIA\fR or a submatrix of \fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 501, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 7;
.IP
else if \fIdesca\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 1, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 9.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row index in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row of the submatrix sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fBB\fR.
.IP
If \fIdescb\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 502, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 7;
.IP
else if \fIdescb\fR(\fIdtype\(ul\fR) = 1, then \fIdlen\(ul\fR\(>= 9.
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
(local) Arrays, same type as \fIa\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIaf\fR is of dimension (\fIlaf\fR). It contains auxiliary Fillin space. Fillin is created during the factorization routine \fBp?dbtrf\fR and this is stored in \fIaf\fR.
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR is a workspace array of dimension \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlaf\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIaf\fR.   
.IP
Must be \fIlaf\fR\(>=\fInrhs\fR*\fIbw\fR.
.IP
If \fIlaf\fR is not large enough, an error code will be returned and the minimum acceptable size will be returned in \fIaf\fR(1).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the array \fIwork\fR, must be at least \fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIbw\fR**2. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR=0, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fInrhs\fR solution distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
