.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ppequ 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ppequ \- Computes row and column scaling factors intended to equilibrate a symmetric (Hermitian) positive definite matrix in packed storage and reduce its condition number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sppequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dppequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cppequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zppequ\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIscond\fR, \fIamax\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ppequ\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIs\fR[,\fIscond\fR] [,\fIamax\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is packed in the array \fIap\fR: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsppequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdppequ\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcppequ\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzppequ\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). The array \fIap\fR contains the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the array \fIs\fR contains the scale factors for  \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIscond\fR contains the ratio of the smallest \fIs\fR(i) to the largest \fIs\fR(i).
.TP 10
\fBamax\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Absolute value of the largest element of the matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR is nonpositive.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBppequ\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
