.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?pocon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?pocon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number (in the 1 - norm) of a symmetric / Hermitian positive-definite distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspocon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpocon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpocon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpocon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIlrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the factor stored in sub(\fIA\fR) is upper or lower triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) stores the upper triangular factor \fIU\fR of the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) stores the lower triangular factor \fIL\fR of the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdpocon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpocon\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the factors \fIL\fR or \fIU\fR from the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U\fR, or sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR, as computed by \fBp?potrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors, 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The 1-norm of the symmetric/Hermitian distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdpocon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpocon\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR of dimension (\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
\fIFor real flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+2*\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR),          \fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+
.IP
\fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR))).
.IP
\fIFor complex flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1,ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR)),       \fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1,ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR)))).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIliwork\fR). Used in real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR; used in real flavors only. Must be at least \fIliwork\fR\(>=\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBREAL\fR for \fBpcpocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpzpocon\fR
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIlrwork\fR). Used in complex flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBlrwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIrwork\fR; used in complex flavors only. Must be at least \fIlrwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR)).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The reciprocal of the condition number of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR). 
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fIiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIiwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIliwork\fR required for optimum performance (for real flavors).
.TP 10
\fIrwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIrwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlrwork\fR required for optimum performance (for complex flavors).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
