.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?posv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?posv \- Solves a symmetric positive definite system of linear equations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psposv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdposv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcposv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzposv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global). \fBCHARACTER\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored. 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIB\fR) (\fInrhs\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsposv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdposv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcposv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzposv\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR symmetric distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be factored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \'\fIU\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular part of the matrix, and its strictly lower triangular part is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \'\fIL\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular part of the distributed matrix, and its strictly upper triangular part is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsposv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISON\fR for \fBpdposv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcposv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzposv\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ulb\fR,\fILOC\fR(\fIjb\fR+\fInrhs\fR-1)). On entry, the local pieces of the right hand sides distributed matrix sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIb\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIB\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, this array contains the local pieces of the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIU\fR*\fIU\fR, or \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, sub(\fIB\fR) is overwritten by the solution distributed matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR =0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR < 0: If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR), if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0: If \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR, the leading minor of order \fIk\fR, \fIA\fR(\fIia\fR:\fIia\fR+\fIk\fR-1, \fIja\fR:\fIja\fR+\fIk\fR-1) is not positive definite, and  the factorization could not be completed, and the solution has not been computed. 
