.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?potrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?potrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a Cholesky-factored symmetric/Hermitian distributed positive-definite matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspotrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpotrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpotrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpotrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, upper triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, lower triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right hand sides; the number of columns of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIB\fR) (\fInrhs\fR\(>=0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspotrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdpotrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpotrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpotrs\fR. 
.IP
Pointers into the local memory  to arrays of local dimension
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) and \fIb\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIjb+nrhs-1\fR)), respectively.
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the factors \fIL\fR or \fIU\fR from the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIL\fR*\fIL\fR**\fIH\fR or sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U\fR, as computed by \fBp?potrf\fR.
.IP
On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the local pieces of the right hand sides sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIB\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the local pieces of the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. \fI\fR
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-th entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
