.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?potrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?potrf \- Computes the Cholesky factorization of a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspotrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpotrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpotrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpotrf\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) that is factored as \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) that is factored as \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspotrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISON\fR for \fBpdpotrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpotrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE  COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpotrf\fR.
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR symmetric/Hermitian distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR) to be factored.
.IP
Depending on \fIuplo\fR, the array \fIa\fR contains either the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) (see \fIuplo\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
The upper or lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is overwritten by the Cholesky factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful;
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array, and the \fIj-\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR >0, the leading minor of order \fIk\fR, \fIA\fR(\fIia:ia+k-1\fR, \fIja:ja+k-1\fR), is not positive-definite, and the factorization could not be completed.  
