.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?potri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?potri \- Computes the inverse of a symmetric/Hermitian positive definite distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pspotri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdpotri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcpotri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzpotri\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric/Hermitian matrix sub(\fIA\fR) is stored.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, upper triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored. If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, lower triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows and columns to be operated on, that is, the order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpspotri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdpotri\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcpotri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzpotri\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of local dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
On entry, the array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the triangular factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U,\fR or sub(\fIA\fR) = \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR, as computed by \fBp?potrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, overwritten by the local pieces of the upper or lower triangle of the (symmetric/Hermitian) inverse of  sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-th entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a  scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR> 0: 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the (\fIi\fR, \fIi\fR) element of the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR is  zero, and the inverse could not be computed.
