.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?stein 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?stein \- Computes the eigenvectors of a tridiagonal matrix using inverse iteration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall psstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIiclustr\fR, \fIgap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIiclustr\fR, \fIgap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pcstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIiclustr\fR, \fIgap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIiz\fR, \fIjz\fR, \fIdescz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIiclustr\fR, \fIgap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR(\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The number of eigenvectors to be returned.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBw\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays: \fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
\fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
\fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fIw\fR(*) contains all the eigenvalues grouped by split-off block.The eigenvalues are supplied from smallest to largest within the block. (Here the output array \fIw\fR from \fBp?stebz\fR  with order = \fB\'B\'\fR is expected. The array should be replicated in all processes.) 
.IP
\fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIm\fR) 
.TP 10
\fBiblock\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The submatrix indices associated with the corresponding eigenvalues in \fIw\fR--1 for eigenvalues belonging to the first submatrix from the top, 2 for those belonging to the second submatrix, etc. (The output array \fIiblock\fR from \fBp?stebz\fR is expected here). 
.TP 10
\fBisplit\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The splitting points, at which \fIT\fR breaks up into submatrices. The first submatrix consists of rows/columns 1 to \fIisplit\fR(1), the second of rows/columns \fIisplit\fR(1)+1 through \fIisplit\fR(2), etc., and the \fInsplit\fR-th consists of rows/columns \fIisplit\fR(\fInsplit\fR-1)+1 through \fIisplit\fR(\fInsplit\fR)=\fIn\fR . (The output array \fIisplit\fR from \fBp?stebz\fR is expected here.) 
.TP 10
\fBorfac\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. \fI\fR
.IP
\fIorfac\fR specifies which eigenvectors should be orthogonalized. Eigenvectors that correspond to eigenvalues within \fIorfac\fR*||T|| of each other are to be orthogonalized. However, if the workspace is insufficient (see \fIlwork\fR), this tolerance may be decreased until all eigenvectors can be stored in one process. No orthogonalization is done if \fIorfac\fR is equal to zero. A default value of 1000 is used if \fIorfac\fR is negative. \fIorfac\fR should be identical on all processes
.TP 10
\fBiz\fR, \fBjz\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The row and column indices in the global array \fIz\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIZ\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescz\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIZ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local). \fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR controls the extent of orthogonalization which can be done. The number of eigenvectors for which storage is allocated on each process is \fInvec\fR = \fBfloor\fR((\fIlwork\fR-max(5*\fIn\fR,\fInp\fR00*\fImq\fR00))/\fIn\fR). Eigenvectors corresponding to eigenvalue clusters of size \fInvec\fR - \fBceil\fR(\fIm\fR/\fIp\fR) + 1 are guaranteed to be orthogonal (the orthogonality is similar to that obtained from \fB?stein2\fR). 
.TP 10
.BR
.B NOTE:
\fIlwork\fR must be no smaller than max(5*\fIn\fR,\fInp\fR00*\fImq\fR00) + \fBceil\fR(\fIm\fR/\fIp\fR)*\fIn\fR and should have the same input value on all processes.
.IP
It is the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR input on different processes that is significant.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then \fIlwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(3\fIn\fR+\fIp\fR+1).
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the array \fIiwork\fR. It must be greater than (3*\fIn\fR+\fIp\fR+1). 
.IP
If \fIliwork\fR = -1, then \fIliwork\fR is global input and a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the minimum and optimal size for all work arrays. Each of these values is returned in the first entry of the corresponding work array, and no error message is issued by \fBpxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpsstein\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdstein\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpcstein\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpzstein\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIdescz\fR(\fIdlen\(ul\fR), \fIn\fR/\fBNPCOL\fR + \fBNB\fR). \fIz\fR contains the computed eigenvectors associated with the specified eigenvalues. Any vector which fails to converge is set to its current iterate after MAXIT iterations  (See ). On output, \fIz\fR is distributed across the \fIp\fR processes in block cyclic format. 
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) gives a lower bound on the workspace (\fIlwork\fR) that guarantees the user desired orthogonalization (see \fIorfac\fR). Note that this may overestimate the minimum workspace needed. 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIiwork\fR(1) contains the amount of integer workspace required. 
.IP
On exit, the \fIiwork\fR(2) through \fIiwork\fR(\fIp\fR+2) indicate the eigenvectors computed by each process. Process \fIi\fR computes eigenvectors indexed \fIiwork\fR(\fIi\fR+2)+1 through \fIiwork\fR(\fIi\fR+3).
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
(global). \fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIm\fR). On normal exit, all elements of \fIifail\fR are zero. If one or more eigenvectors fail to converge after MAXIT iterations (as in \fB?stein\fR), then \fIinfo\fR > 0 is returned. If mod(\fIinfo\fR, \fIm\fR+1)>0, then for \fIi\fR=1 to \fBmod\fR(\fIinfo\fR,\fIm\fR+1), the eigenvector corresponding to the eigenvalue \fIw\fR(\fIifail\fR(\fIi\fR)) failed to converge (\fIw\fR refers to the array of eigenvalues on output).
.TP 10
\fBiclustr\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(2*\fIp\fR)
.IP
This output array contains indices of eigenvectors corresponding to a cluster of eigenvalues that could not be orthogonalized due to insufficient workspace (see \fIlwork\fR, \fIorfac\fR and \fIinfo\fR). Eigenvectors corresponding to clusters of eigenvalues indexed \fIiclustr\fR(2*I-1) to \fIiclustr\fR(2*I), \fIi\fR = 1 to \fIinfo\fR/(\fIm\fR+1), could not be orthogonalized due to lack of workspace. Hence the eigenvectors corresponding to these clusters may not be orthogonal. \fIiclustr\fR is a zero terminated array ---(\fIiclustr\fR(2*\fIk\fR).\fIne\fR.0.\fIand\fR.\fIiclustr\fR(2*\fIk\fR+1).\fIeq\fR.\fI0\fR) if and only if \fIk\fR is the number of clusters. 
.TP 10
\fBgap\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
This output array contains the gap between eigenvalues whose eigenvectors could not be orthogonalized. The \fIinfo\fR/\fIm\fR output values in this array correspond to the \fIinfo\fR/(\fIm\fR+1) clusters indicated by the array \fIiclustr\fR. As a result, the dot product between eigenvectors corresponding to the \fIi-th\fR cluster may be as high as (\fIO\fR(\fIn\fR)*\fImacheps\fR)/\fIgap\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR < 0: If the  \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR), 
.IP
If the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR < 0: if \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0: if \fBmod\fR(\fIinfo\fR, \fIm\fR+1) = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR eigenvectors failed to converge in MAXIT iterations. Their indices are stored in the array \fIifail\fR. If \fIinfo\fR/(\fIm\fR+1) = \fIi\fR, then eigenvectors corresponding to \fIi\fR clusters of eigenvalues could not be orthogonalized due to insufficient workspace. The indices of the clusters are stored in the array \fIiclustr\fR. 
