.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?sygst 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?sygst \- Reduces a real symmetric-definite generalized eigenvalue problem to the standard form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pssygst\fR( \fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdsygst\fR( \fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBibtype\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. Must be 1 or 2 or 3. 
.IP
If \fIitype\fR = 1, compute inv(\fIU\fR**\fIT\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIU\fR), or inv(\fIL\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIL\fR**\fIT\fR); 
.IP
If \fIitype\fR = 2 or 3, compute \fIU\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIU\fR**\fIT\fR, or  \fIL\fR**\fIT\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored and sub (\fIB\fR) is factored as \fIU\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*U\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored and sub (\fIB\fR) is factored as \fIL*L\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices sub (\fIA\fR) and sub (\fIB\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpssygst\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdsygst\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). On entry, the array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR symmetric distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR). 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular part of the matrix, and its strictly lower triangular part is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular part of the matrix, and its strictly upper triangular part is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIa\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIA\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpssygst\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdsygst\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension (\fIlld\(ulb\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIjb\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). On entry, the array contains the local pieces of the triangular factor from the Cholesky factorization of sub (\fIB\fR) as returned by \fBp?potrf\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIb\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix \fIB\fR, respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix B.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the transformed matrix, stored in the same format as sub(\fIA\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
(global)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpssygst\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdsygst\fR. 
.IP
Amount by which the eigenvalues should be scaled to compensate for the scaling performed in this routine. At present, \fIscale\fR is always returned as 1.0, it is returned here to allow for future enhancement. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. If \fIinfo\fR < 0, if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR), if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR. 
