.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?sygs2/p?hegs2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?sygs2/p?hegs2 \- Reduces a symmetric/Hermitian definite generalized eigenproblem to standard form, using the factorization results obtained from \fBp?potrf\fR (local unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pssygs2\fR(\fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdsygs2\fR(\fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pchegs2\fR(\fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pzhegs2\fR(\fIibtype\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBibtype\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 1: 
.IP
compute inv(\fIU\fR**\fIT\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIU\fR), or inv(\fIL\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIL\fR**\fIT\fR) for real subroutines, 
.IP
and inv(\fIU\fR**\fIH\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIU\fR), or inv(\fIL\fR)*sub(\fIA\fR)*inv(\fIL\fR**\fIH\fR) for complex subroutines;
.IP
= 2 or 3: 
.IP
compute \fIU\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIU\fR**\fIT\fR, or \fIL\fR**\fIT\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIL\fR for real subroutines, 
.IP
and \fIU\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIU\fR**\fIH\fR or \fIL\fR**\fIH\fR*sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIL\fR for complex subroutines.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER\fR
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric/Hermitian matrix sub(\fIA\fR) is stored, and how sub(\fIB\fR) is factorized. 
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  Upper triangular of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored and sub(\fIB\fR) is factorized as \fIU\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*U\fR (for real subroutines) or as \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*U\fR (for complex subroutines). 
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  Lower triangular of sub(\fIA\fR) is stored and sub(\fIB\fR) is factorized as \fIL*L\fR**\fIT\fR  (for real subroutines) or as \fIL*L\fR**\fIH\fR (for complex subroutines)
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The order of the matrices sub(\fIA\fR) and sub(\fIB\fR). \fIn\fR \(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpssygs2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdsygs2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpchegs2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzhegs2\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR symmetric/Hermitian distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular part of the matrix, and the strictly lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular part of the matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBB\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpssygs2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdsygs2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpchegs2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpzhegs2\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIjb\fR+\fIn\fR-1)). 
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the triangular factor from the Cholesky factorization of sub(\fIB\fR) as returned by \fBp?potrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the sub(\fIB\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the transformed matrix is stored in the same format as sub(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0:  successful exit. 
.IP
< 0:  if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value,
.IP
then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi*\fR100),
.IP
if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value,
.IP
then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR.
