.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ptcon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ptcon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite tridiagonal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sptcon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dptcon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cptcon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zptcon\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ptcon\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR[,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Arrays, dimension (\fIn\fR).
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the factorization of \fIA\fR, as computed by \fB?pttrf\fR ;
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsptcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdptcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcptcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzptcon\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIn\fR -1). 
.IP
Contains off-diagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the factorization computed by \fB?pttrf\fR .
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The 1- norm of the \fIoriginal\fRmatrix \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number. The routine sets \fIrcond\fR =0 if the estimate underflows; in this case the matrix is singular (to working precision). However, anytime \fIrcond\fR is small compared to 1.0, for the working precision, the matrix may be poorly conditioned or even singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBgtcon\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
