.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?trcon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?trcon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a triangular distributed matrix in either 1-norm or infinity-norm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pstrcon\fR( \fInorm, uplo, diag, n, a, ia, ja, desca, rcond, work, lwork, iwork, liwork, info\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdtrcon\fR( \fInorm, uplo, diag, n, a, ia, ja, desca, rcond, work, lwork, iwork, liwork, info\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pctrcon\fR( \fInorm, uplo, diag, n, a, ia, ja, desca, rcond, work, lwork, rwork, lrwork, info\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pztrcon\fR( \fInorm, uplo, diag, n, a, ia, ja, desca, rcond, work, lwork, rwork, lrwork, info\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBnorm\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the 1-norm condition number or the infinity-norm condition number is required.
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'1\'\fR or \fB\'O\'\fR, then the 1-norm is used;
.IP
If \fInorm\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, then the infinity-norm is used.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) is upper triangular. If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) is non-unit triangular. If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, sub(\fIA\fR) is unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR),(\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpstrcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdtrcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpctrcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpztrcon\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array of dimension 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the triangular distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of this distributed matrix contains the upper triangular matrix, and its strictly lower triangular part is not referenced.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of this distributed matrix contains the lower triangular matrix, and its strictly upper triangular part is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the diagonal elements of sub(\fIA\fR) are also not referenced and are assumed to be 1.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpstrcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdtrcon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpctrcon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpztrcon\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR of dimension (\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
\fIFor real flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1,ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR)),
.IP
\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+\fInb\(ula\fR*max(1,ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR))).
.IP
\fIFor complex flavors:\fR
.IP
\fIlwork\fR must be at least 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR))+max(2, max(\fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPROW\fR-1, \fBNPCOL\fR),
.IP
\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR))+\fInb\(ula\fR*ceil(\fBNPCOL\fR-1, \fBNPROW\fR))).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIliwork\fR). Used in real flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR; used in real flavors only. Must be at least
.IP
\fIliwork\fR\(>=\fILOCr\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIia\fR-1,\fImb\(ula\fR)).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
(local) \fBREAL\fR for \fBpcpocon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpzpocon\fR
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR  (\fIlrwork\fR). Used in complex flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBlrwork\fR
.NL
(local or global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIrwork\fR; used in complex flavors only. Must be at least \fI\fR
.IP
\fIlrwork\fR\(>=\fILOCc\fR(\fIn\fR+mod(\fIja\fR-1,\fInb\(ula\fR)).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
(global) \fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The reciprocal of the condition number of the distributed matrix sub(\fIA\fR). 
.TP 10
\fIwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance.
.TP 10
\fIiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIiwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIliwork\fR required for optimum performance (for real flavors).
.TP 10
\fIrwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, \fIrwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlrwork\fR required for optimum performance (for complex flavors).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
If the \fIi-\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-th entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi-\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR.
