.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ptrfs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ptrfs \- Refines the solution of a system of linear equations with a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite tridiagonal matrix and estimates its error.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sptrfs\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dptrfs\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cptrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zptrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ptrfs\fR( \fId\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.PP
\fBcall ptrfs\fR( \fId\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Used for complex flavors only. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the superdiagonal or the subdiagonal of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR is stored and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIe\fR stores the superdiagonal of \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIU\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*D*U\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIe\fR stores the subdiagonal of \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBdf\fR, \fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors \fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors
.IP
Arrays:  \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdf\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIrwork\fR(\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix  \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIdf\fR contains the  \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?pttrf\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIrwork\fR is a workspace array used for complex flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR,\fBef\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBx\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsptrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdptrfs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcptrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzptrfs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIe\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIef\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,\fInrhs\fR), \fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR,\fInrhs\fR), \fIwork\fR(*). 
.IP
The array \fIe\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) off-diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR (see  \fIuplo\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIef\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) off-diagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the factorization computed by \fB?pttrf\fR (see  \fIuplo\fR).
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The array \fIx\fR contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR as computed by . 
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR is a workspace array. The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least 2*\fIn\fR for real flavors, and at least \fIn\fR for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
The refined solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBptrfs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBef\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Used in complex flavors only. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
