.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?trtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?trtrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a triangular distributed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pstrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdtrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pctrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pztrtrs\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIib\fR, \fIjb\fR, \fIdescb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether sub(\fIA\fR) is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR) is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR) is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR = sub(\fIB\fR) is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR) is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then sub(\fIA\fR) is unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR) (\fIn\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; i.e., the number of columns of the distributed matrix sub(\fIB\fR) (\fInrhs\fR\(>=0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
(local) 
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpstrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdtrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpctrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBpztrtrs\fR. 
.IP
Pointers into the local memory to arrays of local dimension \fIa\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)) and \fIb\fR(\fIlld\(ulb\fR,\fILOCc\fR(\fIjb+nrhs-1\fR)), respectively.
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the local pieces of the distributed triangular matrix sub(\fIA\fR). 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular matrix, and the strictly lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the diagonal elements of sub(\fIA\fR) are also not referenced and are assumed to be 1.
.IP
On entry, the array \fIb\fR contains the local pieces of the right hand side distributed matrix sub(\fIB\fR).
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBib\fR, \fBjb\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR.  The row and column indices in the global array \fIB\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the submatrix sub(\fIB\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdescb\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, dimension (\fIdlen\(ul\fR).  The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIB\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR=0, sub(\fIB\fR) is overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: 
.IP
if the \fIi\fRth argument is an array and the \fIj\fRth entry had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = -(\fIi\fR*100+\fIj\fR); if the \fIi\fRth argument is a scalar and had an illegal value, then \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR;
.IP
\fIinfo\fR> 0: 
.IP
if \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of sub(\fIA\fR) is zero, indicating that the submatrix is singular and the solutions \fIX\fR have not been computed. 
