.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH p?trti2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
p?trti2 \- Computes the inverse of a triangular matrix (local unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall pstrti2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pdtrti2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pctrti2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall pztrti2\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIia\fR, \fIja\fR, \fIdesca\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether the matrix sub (\fIA\fR) is upper or lower triangular. 
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  sub (\fIA\fR) is upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  sub (\fIA\fR) is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
(global) \fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
Specifies whether or not the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular. 
.IP
= \fB\'N\'\fR:  sub (\fIA\fR) is non-unit triangular
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  sub (\fIA\fR) is unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The number of rows and columns to be operated on, i.e., the order of the distributed submatrix sub(\fIA\fR). \fIn\fR \(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBpstrti2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBpdtrti2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBpctrti2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBpztrti2\fR. 
.IP
Pointer into the local memory to an array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlld\(ula\fR, \fILOCc\fR(\fIja\fR+\fIn\fR-1)).
.IP
On entry, this array contains the local pieces of the triangular matrix sub(\fIA\fR).
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) contains the upper triangular part of the matrix, and the strictly lower triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the matrix sub(\fIA\fR) contains the lower triangular part of the matrix, and the strictly upper triangular part of sub(\fIA\fR) is not referenced. If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the diagonal elements of sub(\fIA\fR) are not referenced either and are assumed to be 1.
.TP 10
\fBia\fR, \fBja\fR
.NL
(global) \fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The row and column indices in the global array \fIA\fR indicating the first row and the first column of the sub(\fIA\fR), respectively.
.TP 10
\fBdesca\fR
.NL
(global and local) \fBINTEGER\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIdlen\(ul\fR). The array descriptor for the distributed matrix \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the (triangular) inverse of the original matrix, in the same storage format.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: successful exit 
.IP
< 0: if the \fIi\fR-th argument is an array and the \fIj\fR-entry had an illegal value,
.IP
then \fIinfo\fR = - (\fIi\fR*100),
.IP
if the \fIi\fR-th argument is a scalar and had an illegal value,
.IP
then \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR.
