.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ptsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ptsv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a symmetric or Hermitian positive definite tridiagonal matrix A and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sptsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dptsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cptsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zptsv\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ptsv\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, dimension at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Contains the diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsptsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdptsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcptsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzptsv\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIe\fR(\fIn\fR - 1) , \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). The array \fIe\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR (real)/ \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR (complex) factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR - 1) subdiagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIL\fR from the factorization of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo \fR= 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the leading minor of order \fIi\fR (and therefore the matrix \fIA\fR itself) is not positive-definite, and the solution has not been computed.  The factorization has not been completed unless \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBptsv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
