.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ptsvx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ptsvx \- Uses factorization to compute the solution to the system of linear equations with a symmetric (Hermitian) positive definite tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR, and provides error bounds on the solution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sptsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dptsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cptsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zptsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ptsvx\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIdf\fR] [,\fIef\fR] [,\fIfact\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIrcond\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'F\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether or not the factored form of the matrix \fIA\fR is supplied on entry.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR:  on entry, \fIdf\fR and \fIef\fR contain the factored form of \fIA\fR. Arrays \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIdf\fR, and \fIef\fR will not be modified.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the matrix \fIA\fR will be copied to \fIdf\fR and \fIef\fR , and factored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBdf\fR, \fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors \fB\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Arrays:  \fId\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIdf\fR(\fIn\fR), \fIrwork\fR(\fIn\fR).
.IP
The array \fId\fR contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix  \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIdf\fR is an input argument if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR and on entry contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR (real)/ \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR (complex) factorization of \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIrwork\fR is a workspace array used for complex flavors only.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR,\fBef\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzptsvx\fR.
.IP
Arrays: \fIe\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIef\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR*), \fIwork\fR(*). The array \fIe\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) subdiagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIef\fR is an input argument if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR and on entry contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) subdiagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIL\fR from the \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR (real)/ \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIH\fR (complex) factorization of \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR is a workspace array. The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least 2*\fIn\fR for real flavors, and at least \fIn\fR for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcptsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzptsvx\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldx\fR,*).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 or \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR+1, the array \fIx\fR contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR to the system of equations. The second dimension of \fIx\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR, \fBef\fR
.NL
These arrays  are output arguments if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR. See the description of \fIdf\fR, \fIef\fR in \fIInput Arguments\fRsection.
.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal condition number of the matrix \fIA\fR after equilibration (if done). If \fIrcond\fR is less than the machine precision (in particular, if \fIrcond\fR = 0), the matrix is singular to working precision.  This condition is indicated by a return code of \fIinfo\fR > 0.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contains the estimated forward error bound for each solution vector \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) (the \fIj\fR-th column of the solution matrix \fIX\fR).   If \fIxtrue\fR is the true solution corresponding to \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR), \fIferr\fR(\fIj\fR)  is an estimated upper bound for the magnitude of the largest element in (\fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) - \fIxtrue\fR) divided by the magnitude of the largest element in \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR). The estimate is as reliable as the estimate for \fBrcond\fR, and is almost always a slight overestimate of the true error.
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contains the component-wise relative backward error for each solution vector \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR), that is, the smallest relative chnage in any element of \fIA\fR or \fIB\fR that makes \fIx\fR(\fIj\fR) an exact solution.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo \fR= 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, the leading minor of order \fIi\fR (and therefore the matrix \fIA\fR itself) is not positive-definite, so the factorization could not be completed, and the solution and error bounds could not be computed; \fIrcond\fR =0 is returned.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR + 1, then \fIU\fR is nonsingular, but \fIrcond\fR is less than machine precision, meaning that the matrix is singular to working precision. Nevertheless, the  solution and error bounds are computed because there are a number of situations where the  computed solution can be more accurate than the value of \fIrcond\fR would suggest.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBptsvx\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdf\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBef\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'F\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR. If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR, then both arguments \fIaf\fR and \fIipiv\fR must be present; otherwise, an error is returned.
