.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pttrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pttrf \- Computes the factorization of a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite tridiagonal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpttrf\fR( \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pttrf\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR[,\fIinfo\fR]                                                                                                                                )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspttrf\fR, \fBcpttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpttrf\fR, \fBzpttrf\fR.
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). Contains the diagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpttrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpttrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpttrf\fR. Array, dimension (\fIn\fR -1). Contains the subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the \fIL*D*L\fR\' factorization of \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the (\fIn\fR - 1) off-diagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIL\fR or \fIU\fR from the factorization of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fBi\fR, the leading minor of order \fIi\fR (and therefore the matrix \fIA\fR itself) is not positive-definite; if \fIi\fR < \fIn\fR, the factorization could not be completed, while if \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR, the factorization was completed, but \fId\fR(\fIn\fR) \(<= 0.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpttrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
