.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?pttrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?pttrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a symmetric (Hermitian) positive-definite tridiagonal matrix using the factorization computed by \fB?pttrf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall spttrs\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dpttrs\fR( \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cpttrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zpttrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall pttrs\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIinfo\fR] )
.PP
\fBcall pttrs\fR( \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Used for \fBcpttrs\fR/\fBzpttrs\fR only. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the superdiagonal or the subdiagonal of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR is stored and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIe\fR stores the superdiagonal of \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIU\fR\'\fI*D*U\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIe\fR stores the subdiagonal of \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIL*D*L\fR\'.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, that is, the number of columns of the matrix \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspttrs\fR, \fBcpttrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpttrs\fR, \fBzpttrs\fR. 
.IP
Array, dimension (\fIn\fR). Contains the diagonal elements of the diagonal matrix \fID\fR from the factorization computed by \fB?pttrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBspttrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdpttrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcpttrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzpttrs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIe\fR(\fIn\fR -1), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR, \fInrhs\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIe\fR contains the (\fIn\fR - 1) off-diagonal elements of the unit bidiagonal factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the factorization computed by \fB?pttrf\fR (see  \fIuplo\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBpttrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fI nrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Used in complex flavors only. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
