.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dfgmres\(ulget 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dfgmres\(ulget \- Retrieves the number of the current iteration and updates the solution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdfgmres\(ulget\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIRCI\(ulrequest\fR, \fIipar\fR, \fIdpar\fR, \fItmp\fR, \fIitercount\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Contains the size of the problem, and the sizes of the arrays \fBx\fR and \fBb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR array of size \fB128\fR. Refer to the FGMRES Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size \fB128\fR. Refer to the FGMRES Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBtmp\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size ((2*\fBipar\fR(15)+1)*\fBn\fR+\fBipar\fR(15)*\fBipar\fR(15)+9)/2 + 1). Refer to the FGMRES Common Parameters.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size \fBn\fR. If \fBipar\fR\fB(13)\fR= 0, it contains the updated approximation to the solution according to the computations done in \fBdfgmres\fR routine. Otherwise, it is not changed.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size \fBn\fR. If \fBipar\fR\fB(13)\fR> 0, it contains the updated approximation to the solution according to the computations done in \fBdfgmres\fR routine. Otherwise, it is not changed.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about result of work of theroutine.
.TP 10
\fBitercount\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR argument. Contains the value of the current iteration number.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= 0
.NL
The routine completes task normally.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -12
.NL
The routine is interrupted because errors are found in the method parameters. Normally this happens if the parameters \fBipar\fR and \fBdpar\fR are altered by mistake outside the routine.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -10000
.NL
The routine fails to complete the task.
