.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dcgmrhs\(ulinit 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dcgmrhs\(ulinit \- Initializes the RCI CG solver with MHRS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdcgmrhs\(ulinit\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIb\fR, \fImethod\fR, \fIRCI\(ulrequest\fR, \fIipar\fR, \fIdpar\fR, \fItmp\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Contains the size of the problem, and the sizes of arrays \fBx\fR and \fBb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR matrix of size \fIn\fR-by-\fBnrhs\fR. Contains the initial approximation to the solution vectors. Normally it is equal to 0 or to \fBb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. This parameter sets the number of right-hand sides.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR matrix of size (\fBnrhs\fR, \fIn\fR).  Contains the right-hand side vectors.
.TP 10
\fBmethod\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the method of solution:
.IP
1 - CG with multiple right hand sides; default value
.IP
2 - Block-CG (not supported now).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about result of work of theroutine.
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR array of size \fB(128+2*\fBnrhs\fR)\fR. Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size \fB(128+2*\fBnrhs\fR)\fR. Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBtmp\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size (\fIn\fR, 3+\fBnrhs\fR). Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR\fB= 0\fR
.NL
The routine completes task normally.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR\fB= -10000\fR
.NL
The routine fails to complete the task.
