.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH dcgmrhs\(ulcheck 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
dcgmrhs\(ulcheck \- Checks consistency and correctness of the user defined data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdcgmrhs\(ulcheck\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIx\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIRCI\(ulrequest\fR, \fIipar\fR, \fIdpar\fR, \fItmp\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Contains the size of the problem, and the sizes of arrays \fBx\fR and \fBb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR matrix of size \fIn\fR by \fBnrhs\fR. Contains the initial approximation to the solution vectors. Normally it is equal to 0 or to \fBb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. This parameter sets the number of right-hand sides.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR matrix of size (\fBnrhs\fR,\fIn\fR). Contains the right-hand side vectors.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Informs about result of work of theroutine.
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR array of size \fB(128+2*\fBnrhs\fR)\fR. Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size \fB(128+2*\fBnrhs\fR)\fR. Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.TP 10
\fBtmp\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array of size (\fIn\fR, 3+\fBnrhs\fR). Refer to the CG Common Parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= 0
.NL
The routine completes task normally.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -1100
.NL
The routine is interrupted, errors occur.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -1001
.NL
The routine returns some warning messages.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -1010
.NL
The routine changes some parameters to make them consistent or correct.
.TP 10
\fBRCI\(ulrequest\fR= -1011
.NL
The routine returns some warning messages and changes some parameters.
