.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH RegisterBrng 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
RegisterBrng \- Registers user-defined basic generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIbrng\fR= \fBvslregisterbrng\fR( \fIproperties\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIbrng\fR= \fBvslRegisterBrng\fR( \fI&properties\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBproperties\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE(VSL\(ulBRNG\(ulPROPERTIES)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLBRngProperties*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Pointer to the structure containing properties of the basic generator to be registered
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBbrng\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Number (index) of the registered basic generator; used for identification. Negative values indicate the registration error.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK\fR, \fBVSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBRNG\(ulTABLE\(ulFULL\fR
.NL
Registration cannot be completed due to lack of free entries in the table of registered BRNGs.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE\(ulSIZE\fR
.NL
Bad value in \fBStreamStateSize\fR field.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulWORD\(ulSIZE\fR
.NL
Bad value in \fBWordSize\fR field.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulNSEEDS\fR
.NL
Bad value in \fBNSeeds\fR field.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulNBITS\fR
.NL
Bad value in \fBNBits\fR field.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
At least one of the fields \fBiBrng\fR, \fBdBrng\fR, \fBsBrng\fR or \fBInitStream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
