.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH SaveStreamF 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
SaveStreamF \- Writes random stream descriptive data to binary file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fBerrstatus\fR = \fBvslsavestreamf\fR( \fIstream\fR, \fIfname\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fBerrstatus\fR = \fBvslSaveStreamF\fR( \fIstream\fR, \fIfname\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE(VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Random stream to be written to the file
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBfname\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBCHARACTER(*)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBchar*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: File name specified as a C-style null-terminated string
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'File name specified as a Fortran-style character string
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBerrstatus\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Error status of the operation
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK, VSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
Either \fBfname\fR or \fBstream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\fR
.NL
\fIstream\fR is not a valid random stream.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulOPEN\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in opening the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulWRITE\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in writing the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulFILE\(ulCLOSE\fR
.NL
Indicates an error in closing the file.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulMEM\(ulFAILURE\fR
.NL
System cannot allocate memory for internal needs.
