.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sbevx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sbevx \- Computes selected eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a real symmetric band matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssbevx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsbevx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sbevx\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIvl\fR] [,\fIvu\fR] [,\fIil\fR] [,\fIiu\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIifail\fR] [,\fIq\fR] [,\fIabstol\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, the routine computes all eigenvalues. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues \fBlambda\fR(i) in the half-open interval: \fIvl\fR<\fIlambda\fR(i)\(<=\fIvu\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues in range \fIil\fR to \fIiu\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIkd\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbevx\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR (*) is a workspace array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 7\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of \fIab\fR; must be at least \fIkd\fR +1.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR, \fBvu\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbevx\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the lower and upper bounds of the interval to be searched for eigenvalues. 
.IP
Constraint: \fIvl\fR< \fIvu\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBil\fR, \fBiu\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the indices in ascending order of the smallest and largest eigenvalues to be returned. 
.IP
Constraint: 1 \(<=\fIil\fR\(<=\fIiu\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, if \fIn\fR > 0; \fIil\fR=1 and \fIiu\fR=0
.IP
if \fIn\fR = 0.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBchpevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzhpevx\fR
.IP
The absolute error tolerance to which each eigenvalue is required. 
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR, \fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimensions of the output arrays \fIq\fR and \fIz\fR, respectively. 
.IP
Constraints:
.IP
\fIldq\fR\(>= 1, \fIldz\fR\(>= 1;
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR) and \fBldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 5\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbevx\fR\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbevx\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR,\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR orthogonal matrix is used in the reduction to tridiagonal form. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the array \fIq\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The total number of eigenvalues found, 0 \(<=\fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR, and if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbevx\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIw(*)\fR, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The first \fIm\fR elements of \fIw\fR contain the selected eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order. 
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR columns of \fIz\fR contain the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR corresponding to the selected eigenvalues, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.IP
If an eigenvector fails to converge, then that column of \fIz\fR contains the latest approximation to the eigenvector, and the index of the eigenvector is returned in \fIifail\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
Note: you must ensure that at least max(1,\fIm\fR) columns are supplied in the array \fIz\fR; if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the exact value of \fIm\fR is not known in advance and an upper bound must be used.
.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten by the values generated during the reduction to tridiagonal form. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the first superdiagonal and the diagonal of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR are returned in rows \fIkd\fR and \fIkd\fR+1 of \fIab\fR, and if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the diagonal and first subdiagonal of \fIT\fR are returned in the first two rows of \fIab\fR.
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR elements of \fIifail\fR are zero; if \fIinfo\fR > 0, the \fIifail\fR contains the indices the eigenvectors that failed to converge. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIifail\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fBi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR eigenvectors failed to converge; their indices are stored in the array \fIifail\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsbevx\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIkd+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR), where the values \fIn\fR and \fIm\fR are significant.
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIQ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvl\fR = \fB-HUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvu\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvu\fR = \fBHUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBil\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIil\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBiu\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIiu\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIabstol\fR = \fB0.0\(ulWP\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if either \fIifail\fR or \fIq\fR is present and \fIz\fR is omitted.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of arguments \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, if one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, if none of \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR is present, 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present and at the same time one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present.
