.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sbgst 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sbgst \- Reduces a real symmetric-definite generalized eigenproblem for banded matrices to the standard form using the factorization performed by \fB?pbstf\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssbgst\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsbgst\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sbgst\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIx\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then matrix \fIX\fR is not returned;
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then matrix \fIX\fR is returned.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIab\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBka\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIka\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIB\fR
.IP
(\fIka\fR\(>=\fIkb\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBbb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbgst\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbgst\fR
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIbb\fR (\fIldbb\fR,*) is an array containing the banded split Cholesky factor of \fIB\fR as specified by \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR and \fIkb\fR and returned by \fBspbstf\fR/\fBdpbstf\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIbb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork(*)\fR is a workspace array, \fBdimension\fR at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR)
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR; must be at least \fIka\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldbb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIbb\fR; must be at least \fIkb\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
The first dimension of the output array x. Constraints: if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIldx\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten by the upper or lower triangle of \fIC\fR as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbgst\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbgst\fR
.IP
Array. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIx\fR (\fIldx\fR,*) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIX\fR = inv(\fIS\fR)*\fIQ\fR.
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIx\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
The second dimension of x must be: 
.IP
at least max(1, \fIn\fR), if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR;
.IP
at least 1, if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsbgst\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIka+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIbb\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIB\fR of size (\fIkb+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIx\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIvect\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIx\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIvect\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIx\fR is omitted.
