.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sbgv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sbgv \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a real generalized symmetric definite eigenproblem with banded matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssbgv\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsbgv\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIka\fR, \fIkb\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIldab\fR, \fIbb\fR, \fIldbb\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sbgv\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues only. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, arrays \fIab\fR and \fIbb\fR store the upper triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, arrays \fIab\fR and \fIbb\fR store the lower triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBka\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIA\fR
.IP
(\fIka\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of super- or sub-diagonals in \fIB\fR (\fIkb\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBab\fR, \fBbb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbgv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbgv\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIab\fR (\fIldab\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIab\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIbb\fR(\fIldbb\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIB\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in band storage format. 
.IP
The second dimension of the array \fIbb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
\fIwork(*)\fR is a workspace array, \fBdimension\fR at least max(1, 3\fIn\fR)
.TP 10
\fBldab\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIab\fR; must be at least \fIka\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldbb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIbb\fR; must be at least \fIkb\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBab\fR
.NL
On exit, the contents of \fIab\fR are overwritten.
.TP 10
\fBbb\fR
.NL
On exit, contains the factor \fIS\fR from the split Cholesky factorization \fIB\fR = \fIS\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*S\fR, as returned by \fBspbstf\fR/\fBdpbstf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssbgv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsbgv\fR
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIw\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues in ascending order. 
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the matrix \fIZ\fR of eigenvectors, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). The eigenvectors are normalized so that \fIZ\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*B\fR*\fIZ\fR = I.
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, and
.IP
if \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, the algorithm failed to converge, and \fIi\fR off-diagonal elements of an intermediate tridiagonal did not converge to zero; 
.IP
if \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR + \fIi\fR, for 1 \(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, then \fBspbstf\fR/\fBdpbstf\fR returned \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR and \fIB\fR is not positive-definite. The factorization of \fIB\fR could not be completed and no eigenvalues or eigenvectors were computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsbgv\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIab\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIka+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIbb\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIB\fR of size (\fIkb+1,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted.
