.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?spgvd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?spgvd \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a real generalized symmetric definite eigenproblem with matrices in packed storage. If eigenvectors are desired, it uses a divide and conquer method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sspgvd\fR(\fIitype\fR, \fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIbp\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dspgvd\fR(\fIitype\fR, \fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIbp\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall spgvd\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIitype\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBitype\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Must be 1 or 2 or 3. Specifies the problem type to be solved: 
.IP
if \fIitype\fR = 1, the problem type is \fIA*x\fR = \fIlambda\fR\fI*B*x\fR; 
.IP
if \fIitype\fR = 2, the problem type is \fIA\fR*\fIB\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIlambda\fR*\fIx\fR; 
.IP
if \fIitype\fR = 3, the problem type is \fIB*A\fR*x = \fIlambda\fR*\fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues only. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, arrays \fIap\fR and \fIbp\fR store the upper triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR;
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, arrays \fIap\fR and \fIbp\fR store the lower triangles of \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrices \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBbp\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsspgvd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdspgvd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIap(*)\fR contains the packed upper or lower triangle of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.IP
\fIbp(*)\fR contains the packed upper or lower triangle of the symmetric matrix \fIB\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIbp\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR.
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
If \fIn\fR\(<= 1, \fIlwork\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIn\fR>1, \fIlwork\fR\(>= 2\fIn\fR;
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and \fIn\fR>1, \fIlwork\fR\(>= 2\fIn\fR**2+6\fIn\fR+1.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR. 
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
If \fIn\fR\(<= 1, \fIliwork\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIn\fR>1, \fIliwork\fR\(>= 1;
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and \fIn\fR>1, \fIliwork\fR\(>= 5\fIn\fR+3.
.IP
If \fIliwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
On exit, the contents of \fIap\fR are overwritten.
.TP 10
\fBbp\fR
.NL
On exit, contains the triangular factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the Cholesky factorization \fIB\fR = \fIU\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*U\fR or \fIB\fR = \fIL*\fR\fIL\fR**\fIT\fR, in the same storage format as \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsspgv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdspgv\fR. 
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIw\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues in ascending order. 
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the matrix \fIZ\fR of eigenvectors. The eigenvectors are normalized as follows:
.IP
if \fIitype\fR = 1 or 2, \fIZ\fR**\fIT\fR*\fIB\fR*\fIZ\fR = I; 
.IP
if \fIitype\fR = 3, \fIZ\fR**\fIT\fR*inv(\fIB\fR)*\fIZ\fR = I;
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIwork\fR(1) returns the required minimal size of \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIiwork\fR(1) returns the required minimal size of \fIliwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth argument had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR > 0, \fBspptrf\fR/\fBdpptrf\fR and \fBsspevd\fR/\fBdspevd\fR returned an error code:
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, \fBsspevd\fR/\fBdspevd\fR failed to converge, and \fIi\fR off-diagonal elements of an intermediate tridiagonal did not converge to zero;
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR + \fIi\fR, for 1 \(<=\fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, then the leading minor of order \fIi\fR of \fIB\fR is not positive-definite. The factorization of \fIB\fR could not be completed and no eigenvalues or eigenvectors were computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBspgvd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIbp\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIB\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBitype\fR
.NL
Must be 1, 2, or 3. The default value is 1.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted.
