.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?\(ulsph\(ulp/?\(ulsph\(ulnp 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
\- Computes the solution of a spherical Helmholtz problem specified by the parameters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulsph\(ulp\fR(\fBdouble* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(uls, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(ulc, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBdouble* \fR\fIdpar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulsph\(ulp\fR(\fBfloat* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(uls, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle\(ulc, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBfloat* \fR\fIspar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid d\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR(\fBdouble* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBdouble* \fR\fIdpar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.PP
\fBvoid s\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR(\fBfloat* \fR\fIf, \fR\fBDFTI\(ulDESCIPTOR* \fR\fIhandle, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIipar, \fR\fBfloat* \fR\fIspar, \fR\fBint* \fR\fIstat\fR)\fB;\fR
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
\fBdouble*\fR for \fBd\(ulsph\(ulp/d\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR,
.IP
\fBfloat*\fR for \fBs\(ulsph\(ulp/s\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR. 
.IP
Contains the right-hand side of the problem packed in a single vector and modified by the appropriate \fB?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulp/?\(ulcommit\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR routine. Note that an attempt to substitute the original right-hand side vector at this point will result in a wrong solution. 
.IP
The size of the vector is (\fBnp\fR+1)*(\fBnt\fR+1) and value of the right-hand side in the mesh point (\fIi, j\fR) is stored in \fBf\fR[\fIi+j\fR*(\fBnp\fR+1)] . 
.TP 10
\fBhandle\(uls, handle\(ulc, handle\fR
.NL
\fBDESCIPTOR\(ulHANDLE*\fR. Data structures used by Intel MKL FFT interface (for details, refer to FFT Functions). \fBhandle\(uls\fR and \fBhandle\(ulc\fR are used only in \fB?\(ulsph\(ulp\fR and\fB handle\fR is used only in \fB?\(ulsph\(ulnp\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
\fBint\fR array of size 128. Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
\fBdouble\fR array of size 5*\fBnp\fR/2+\fBnt\fR+10. Contains double-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
float array of size 5*\fBnp\fR/2+\fBnt\fR+10. Contains single-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere (for details, refer to Common Parameters). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
On output, contains the approximate solution to the problem packed the same way as the right-hand side of the problem was packed on input. 
.TP 10
\fBhandle\(uls, handle\(ulc, handle\fR
.NL
Data structures used by the Intel MKL FFT interface. 
.TP 10
\fBipar\fR
.NL
Contains integer data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBdpar\fR
.NL
Contains double-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBspar\fR
.NL
Contains single-precision data to be used by Fast Helmholtz Solver on a sphere. Modified on output as explained in Common Parameters. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR
.NL
\fBint*\fR. Routine completion status, which is also written to \fBipar[0]\fR. The status should be 0 to proceed to other PL routines. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 1
.NL
The routine completed without errors and produced some warnings. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= 0
.NL
The routine successfully completed the task. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -2
.NL
The routine stopped because division by zero occurred. It usually happens if the data in the \fBdpar\fR or \fBspar\fR array was altered by mistake. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -3
.NL
The routine stopped because the memory was insufficient to complete the computations. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -100
.NL
The routine stopped because an error in the user\'s data was found or the data in the \fBdpar\fR, \fBspar\fR or \fBipar\fR array was altered by mistake. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -1000
.NL
The routine stopped because of an Intel MKL FFT or TT interface error. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -10000
.NL
The routine stopped because the initialization failed to complete or the parameter \fBipar\fR[0] was altered by mistake. 
.TP 10
\fBstat\fR= -99999
.NL
The routine failed to complete the task because of a fatal error. 
