.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?spsvx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?spsvx \- Uses the diagonal pivoting factorization  to compute the solution to the system of linear equations with a real or complex symmetric  matrix A stored in packed format, and provides error bounds on the solution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sspsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIafp\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dspsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIafp\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cspsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIafp\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zspsvx\fR( \fIfact\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIafp\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall spsvx\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIaf\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIfact\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIrcond\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'F\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether or not the factored form of the matrix \fIA\fR has been supplied on entry.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR:  on entry, \fIafp\fR and \fIipiv\fR contain the factored form of \fIA\fR. Arrays \fIap\fR, \fIafp\fR, and \fIipiv\fR are not modified.
.IP
If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the matrix \fIA\fR is copied to \fIafp\fR and factored.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the upper triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIU*D*U\fR**\fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR;  \fIA\fR is factored as \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides, the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR,\fBafp\fR,\fBb\fR,\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzspsvx\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIap\fR(*), \fIafp\fR(*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*), \fIwork\fR(*).
.IP
The array \fIap\fR contains the upper or lower triangle of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR in 
.IP
The array \fIafp\fR is an input argument if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR. It contains the block diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR from the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIU*D*U\fR**\fIT\fR or \fIA\fR = \fIL*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR as computed by \fB?sptrf\fR, in the same storage format as \fIA\fR.
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array.
.IP
The dimension of arrays \fIap\fR and \fIafp\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2); the second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR); the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1,3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1,2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The array \fIipiv\fR is an input argument if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR. It contains  details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR, as determined by \fB?sptrf\fR. 
.IP
If \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR > 0, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is a 1-by-1 diagonal block, and the \fIi\fR-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIk-\fRth row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fRand \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR-1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR-1, and (\fIi\fR-1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fRand \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR+1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR+1, and (\fIi\fR+1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The leading dimension of the output array \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR); used in real flavors only. 
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBcspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBzspsvx\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR); used in complex flavors only. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcspsvx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzspsvx\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIldx\fR,*).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0 or \fIinfo\fR = \fIn\fR+1, the array \fIx\fR contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR to the system of equations. The second dimension of \fIx\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBafp\fR, \fBipiv\fR
.NL
These arrays are output arguments if \fIfact\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR. See the description of \fIafp\fR, \fIipiv\fR in \fIInput Arguments\fRsection.
.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal condition number of the matrix \fIA\fR. If \fIrcond\fR is less than the machine precision (in particular, if \fIrcond\fR = 0), the matrix is singular to working precision.  This condition is indicated by a return code of \fIinfo\fR > 0.
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and relative backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization has been completed, but the block diagonal matrix \fID\fR is exactly singular, so the solution  and error bounds could not be computed; \fIrcond\fR = 0 is returned. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIi\fR = \fIn\fR + 1, then \fID\fR is nonsingular, but \fIrcond\fR is less than machine precision, meaning that the matrix is singular to working precision. Nevertheless, the  solution and error bounds are computed because there are a number of situations where the  computed solution can be more accurate than the value of \fIrcond\fR would suggest.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBspsvx\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBaf\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIafp\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIAF\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBfact\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'F\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR. If \fIfact\fR = \fB\'F\'\fR, then both arguments \fIaf\fR and \fIipiv\fR must be present; otherwise, an error is returned.
