.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sptrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sptrd \- Reduces a real symmetric matrix to tridiagonal form using packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssptrd\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsptrd\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sptrd\fR(\fIa\fR, \fItau\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIap\fR stores the packed upper triangle of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIap\fR stores the packed lower triangle of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssptrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsptrd\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). Contains either upper or lower triangle of \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in packed form.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR and details of the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssptrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsptrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fItau\fR(*) stores further details of the matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsptrd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
