.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sptrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sptrf \- Computes the Bunch-Kaufman factorization of a symmetric matrix using packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssptrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsptrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall csptrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsptrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sptrf\fR( \fIa\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is packed in the array \fIap\fR and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIP*U*D*U\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR stores the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and  \fIA\fR is factored as \fIP*L*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssptrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsptrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsptrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzsptrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). The array \fIap\fR contains the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) in 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
The upper or lower triangle of \fIA\fR (as specified by \fIuplo\fR) is overwritten by details of the block-diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR (or \fIL\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Contains details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR. If \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR > 0, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is a 1-by-1 block, and the \fIi-\fRth row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIk\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR-1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR-1, and the (\fIi\fR-1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR+1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR+1, and the (\fIi\fR+1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fID\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use \fID\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsptrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
