.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?stein 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?stein \- Computes the eigenvectors corresponding to specified eigenvalues of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifailv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifailv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall cstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifailv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zstein\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifailv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall stein\fR(\fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIz\fR[,\fIifailv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of eigenvectors to be returned.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the sub-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR stored in elements 1 to \fIn\fR-1 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fIw\fR(*) contains the eigenvalues of \fIT\fR, stored in \fIw\fR(1) to \fIw\fR(\fIm\fR) (as returned by \fB?stebz\fR). Eigenvalues of \fIT\fR\fI1\fR must be supplied first, in non-decreasing order; then those of \fIT\fR, again in non-decreasing order, and so on. Constraint: 
.IP
if \fIiblock\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIiblock\fR(\fIi\fR\fB+1)\fR, \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR) \(<=\fIw\fR(\fIi\fR\fB+1)\fR.
.IP
The dimension of \fIw\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiblock\fR, \fBisplit\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The arrays \fIiblock\fR and \fIisplit\fR, as returned by \fB?stebz\fR with \fIorder\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR. 
.IP
If you did not call \fB?stebz\fR with \fIorder\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, set all elements of \fIiblock\fR to 1, and \fIisplit\fR(1) to \fIn\fR.)
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 5\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstein\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstein\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcstein\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzstein\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, *). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the \fIm\fR orthonormal eigenvectors, stored by columns. (The \fIi\fRth column corresponds to the \fIi\fR-th specified eigenvalue.)
.TP 10
\fBifailv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIm\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR > 0, the first \fIi\fR elements of \fIifailv\fR contain the indices of any eigenvectors that failed to converge.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR eigenvectors (as indicated by the parameter \fIifailv\fR) each failed to converge in 5 iterations. The current iterates are stored in the corresponding columns of the array \fIz\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBstein\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiblock\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBisplit\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn,m\fR).
.TP 10
\fBifailv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIm\fR).
