.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?stein2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?stein2 \- Computes the eigenvectors corresponding to specified eigenvalues of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix, using inverse iteration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall sstein2\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dstein2\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIiblock\fR, \fIisplit\fR, \fIorfac\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn \fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of eigenvectors to be found (0 \(<= \fIm \fR\(<=\fI n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays: \fId\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). The \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR.
.IP
\fIe\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The (\fIn\fR-1) subdiagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR, in elements 1 to \fIn\fR-1. \fIe\fR(\fIn\fR) need not be set.
.IP
\fIw\fR(*), \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The first \fIm\fR elements of \fIw\fR contain the eigenvalues for which eigenvectors are to be computed. The eigenvalues should be grouped by split-off block and ordered from smallest to largest within the block. (The output array \fIw\fR from \fB?stebz\fR with \fBORDER\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR is expected here).
.IP
The dimension of \fIw\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiblock\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The submatrix indices associated with the corresponding eigenvalues in \fIw\fR ;
.IP
\fIiblock\fR(\fIi\fR) = 1, if eigenvalue \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR) belongs to the first submatrix from the top, 
.IP
\fIiblock\fR(\fIi\fR) = 2, if eigenvalue \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR) belongs to the second submatrix, etc. (The output array \fIiblock\fR from \fB?stebz\fR is expected here).
.TP 10
\fBisplit\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
The splitting points, at which \fIT\fR breaks up into submatrices. The first submatrix consists of rows/columns 1 to \fIisplit\fR(1), the second submatrix consists of rows/columns \fIisplit\fR(1)+1 through \fIisplit\fR( 2 ), etc. (The output array \fIisplit\fR from \fB?stebz\fR is expected here).
.TP 10
\fBorfac\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
\fIorfac\fR specifies which eigenvectors should be orthogonalized. Eigenvectors that correspond to eigenvalues which are within \fIorfac\fR*\fI||T||\fR of each other are to be orthogonalized. 
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (5\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstein2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstein2\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, \fIm\fR). 
.IP
The computed eigenvectors. The eigenvector associated with the eigenvalue \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR) is stored in the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR. Any vector that fails to converge is set to its current iterate after \fImaxits\fR iterations.
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIm\fR). 
.IP
On normal exit, all elements of \fIifail\fR are zero. If one or more eigenvectors fail to converge after \fImaxits\fR iterations, then their indices are stored in the array \fIifail\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR = 0, the exit is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th had an illegal value.
.IP
\fIinfo  \fR> 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR eigenvectors failed to converge in \fImaxits\fR iterations. Their indices are stored in the array \fIifail\fR.
