.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?steqr2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?steqr2 \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a symmetric tridiagonal matrix using the implicit QL or QR method.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall ssteqr2\fR(\fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fInr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsteqr2\fR(\fIcompz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fInr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBcompz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues only. If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the routine computes the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR.
.IP
\fIz\fR must be initialized to the identity matrix by \fBp?laset\fR or \fB?laset\fR prior to entering this subroutine.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR(\fIn \fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays: \fId\fR contains the diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR contains the (\fIn\fR-1) subdiagonal elements of \fIT\fR. The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array. The dimension of \fIwork\fR is max(1, 2\fI*n\fR-2). If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIwork\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssteqr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsteqr2\fR
.IP
Array, global \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR), local \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, \fInr\fR). 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIz\fR contains the orthogonal matrix used in the reduction to tridiagonal form.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIz\fR. Constraints: 
.IP
\fIldz \fR\(>= 1, 
.IP
\fIldz \fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR), if eigenvectors are desired.
.TP 10
\fBnr\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. \fInr\fR = max(1, \fInumroc\fR(\fIn\fR, \fInb\fR, \fImyprow\fR, 0, \fInprocs\fR)). 
.IP
If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fInr\fR is not referenced.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR), for \fBssteqr2\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR), for \fBdsteqr2\fR. 
.IP
On exit, the eigenvalues in ascending order, if \fIinfo\fR = 0. 
.IP
See also \fIinfo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR-1), for \fBssteqr2\fR. 
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR-1), for \fBdsteqr2\fR. 
.IP
On exit, \fIe\fR has been destroyed.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
(local)
.IP
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssteqr2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsteqr2\fR
.IP
Array, global \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR), local \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, \fInr\fR). 
.IP
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then, 
.IP
if \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIz\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the original symmetric matrix, and if \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIz\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the symmetric tridiagonal matrix. If \fIcompz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
\fIinfo\fR = 0, the exit is successful.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR < 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th had an illegal value.
.IP
\fIinfo\fR > 0: the algorithm has failed to find all the eigenvalues in a total of 30\fIn\fR iterations;
.IP
if \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR elements of \fIe\fR have not converged to zero; on exit, \fId\fR and \fIe\fR contain the elements of a symmetric tridiagonal matrix, which is orthogonally similar to the original matrix.
