.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sterf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sterf \- Computes all eigenvalues of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix using QR algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssterf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsterf\fR(\fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sterf\fR(\fId\fR, \fIe\fR[,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssterf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsterf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
The \fIn\fR eigenvalues in ascending order, unless \fIinfo\fR > 0. 
.IP
See also \fIinfo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
On exit, the array is overwritten; see \fIinfo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the algorithm failed to find all the eigenvalues after 30\fIn\fR iterations: 
.IP
\fIi\fR off-diagonal elements have not converged to zero. On exit, \fId\fR and \fIe\fR contain, respectively, the diagonal and off-diagonal elements of a tridiagonal matrix orthogonally similar to \fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsterf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
