.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?stev 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?stev \- Computes all eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall sstev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dstev\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall stev\fR(\fId\fR, \fIe\fR[,\fIz\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstev\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the \fIn\fR-1 subdiagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1). The \fIn\fR-th element of this array is used as workspace.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 2\fIn\fR-2). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, \fIwork\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR then \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstev\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstev\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldz\fR, *). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIz\fR contains the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with the eigenvalue returned in \fId\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
On exit, this array is overwritten with intermediate results.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the algorithm failed to converge; 
.IP
\fIi\fR elements of \fIe\fR did not converge to zero.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBstev\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted.
