.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?stevr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?stevr \- Computes selected eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix using the Relatively Robust Representations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
\fBcall sstevr\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIisuppz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dstevr\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIn\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIisuppz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall stevr\fR(\fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIw\fR[, \fIz\fR] [,\fIvl\fR] [,\fIvu\fR] [,\fIil\fR] [,\fIiu\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIisuppz\fR] [,\fIabstol\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, the routine computes all eigenvalues. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues \fIlambda\fR(\fIi\fR) in the half-open interval: 
.IP
\fIvl\fR<\fIlambda\fR(\fIi\fR)\(<=\fIvu\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the routine computes eigenvalues with indices \fIil\fR to \fIiu\fR.
.IP
For \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fRor \fB\'I\'\fR and \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR < \fIn\fR\fB-\fR1, \fBsstebz\fR/\fBdstebz\fR and \fBsstein\fR/\fBdstein\fR are called.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstevr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstevr\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the \fIn\fR diagonal elements of the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the \fIn\fR-1 subdiagonal elements of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1). The \fIn\fR-th element of this array is used as workspace.\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR, \fBvu\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstevr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstevr\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the lower and upper bounds of the interval to be searched for eigenvalues. 
.IP
Constraint: \fIvl\fR< \fIvu\fR.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBil\fR, \fBiu\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the indices in ascending order of the smallest and largest eigenvalues to be returned. 
.IP
Constraint: 1 \(<=\fIil\fR\(<=\fIiu\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, if \fIn\fR > 0; \fIil\fR=1 and \fIiu\fR=0 if \fIn\fR = 0.
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevr\fR. 
.IP
The absolute error tolerance to which each eigenvalue/eigenvector is required. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the eigenvalues and eigenvectors output have residual norms bounded by \fIabstol\fR, and the dot products between different eigenvectors are bounded by \fIabstol\fR. If \fIabstol\fR < \fIn\fR *eps*|\fIT\fR|, then \fIn\fR *eps*|\fIT\fR| will be used in its place, where eps is the machine precision, and |\fIT\fR| is the 1-norm of the matrix \fIT\fR. The eigenvalues are computed to an accuracy of eps*|\fIT\fR| irrespective of \fIabstol\fR.
.IP
If high relative accuracy is important, set \fIabstol\fR to \fB?lamch\fR(\'S\').
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the output array \fIz\fR. 
.IP
Constraints:
.IP
\fIldz\fR\(>= 1 if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR;
.IP
\fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR) if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. Constraint: 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, 20*\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBliwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR, 
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, 10*\fIn\fR).
.IP
If \fIliwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The total number of eigenvalues found, 
.IP
0 \(<=\fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR. If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR, and if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR+1.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR, \fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBsstevr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdstevr\fR. 
.IP
Arrays:
.IP
\fIw(*)\fR, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The first \fIm\fR elements of \fIw\fR contain the selected eigenvalues of the matrix \fIT\fR in ascending order. 
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR columns of \fIz\fR contain the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIT\fR corresponding to the selected eigenvalues, with the \fIi\fR-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(\fIi\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
Note: you must ensure that at least max(1,\fIm\fR) columns are supplied in the array \fIz\fR; if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the exact value of \fIm\fR is not known in advance and an upper bound must be used.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR
.NL
On exit, these arrays may be multiplied by a constant factor chosen to avoid overflow or underflow in computing the eigenvalues. 
.TP 10
\fBisuppz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least 2 *max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
The support of the eigenvectors in \fIz\fR, i.e., the indices indicating the nonzero elements in \fIz\fR. The \fIi\fR-th eigenvector is nonzero only in elements \fIisuppz\fR( 2\fIi\fR-1) through \fIisuppz\fR( 2\fIi\fR ). 
.IP
Implemented only for \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'I\'\fR and \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR = \fIn\fR\fB-\fR1.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIwork\fR(1) returns the required minimal size of \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIinfo\fR = 0, then \fIiwork\fR(1) returns the required minimal size of \fIliwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, an internal error has occurred.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their FORTRAN 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBstevr\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIZ\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR), where the values \fIn\fR and \fIm\fR are significant.
.TP 10
\fBisuppz\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (2*\fIn\fR), where the values (2*\fIm\fR) are significant.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvl\fR = \fB-HUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvu\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvu\fR = \fBHUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBil\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIil\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBiu\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIiu\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIabstol\fR = \fB0.0\(ulWP\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if \fIifail\fR is present and \fIz\fR is omitted.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of arguments \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, if one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present, 
.IP
\fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, if none of \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR is present, 
.IP
Note that there will be an error condition if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present and at the same time one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present.
