.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sycon 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sycon \- Estimates the reciprocal of the condition number of a symmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssycon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsycon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall csycon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsycon\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sycon\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIanorm\fR, \fIrcond\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates how the input matrix \fIA\fR has been factored:
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular factor \fIU\fR of the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*U*D*U\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular factor \fIL\fR of the factorization \fIA\fR = \fIP*L*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssycon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsycon\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsycon\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzsycon\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*), \fIwork\fR(*).
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the factored matrix \fIA\fR, as returned by \fB?sytrf\fR. The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.IP
The array \fIwork\fR is a workspace for the routine.
.IP
The dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1, 2*\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIipiv\fR, as returned by \fB?sytrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBanorm\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
The norm of the \fIoriginal\fRmatrix \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBrcond\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
An estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number. The routine sets \fIrcond\fR =0 if the estimate underflows; in this case the matrix is singular (to working precision). However, anytime \fIrcond\fR is small compared to 1.0, for the working precision, the matrix may be poorly conditioned or even singular.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsycon\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
