.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?syevx 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?syevx \- Computes selected eigenvalues and, optionally, eigenvectors of a symmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssyevx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsyevx\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIrange\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR, \fIabstol\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIifail\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall syevx\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIz\fR] [,\fIvl\fR] [,\fIvu\fR] [,\fIil\fR] [,\fIiu\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIifail\fR] [,\fIabstol\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'A\'\fR, \fB\'V\'\fR, or \fB\'I\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, all eigenvalues will be found. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, all eigenvalues in the half-open interval (\fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR] will be found. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the eigenvalues with indices \fIil\fR through \fIiu\fR will be found. 
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevx\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIa\fR. Must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR, \fBvu\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevx\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the lower and upper bounds of the interval to be searched for eigenvalues; \fIvl\fR\(<=\fIvu\fR. Not referenced if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fRor \fB\'I\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBil\fR, \fBiu\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, the indices of the smallest and largest eigenvalues to be returned. 
.IP
Constraints: 1 \(<=\fIil\fR\(<=\fIiu\fR\(<=\fIn\fR, if \fIn\fR > 0;
.IP
\fIil\fR = 1 and \fIiu\fR = 0 , if \fIn\fR = 0. 
.IP
Not referenced if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fRor \fB\'V\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevx\fR. 
.IP
The absolute error tolerance for the eigenvalues. 
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIz\fR; \fIldz\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldz\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
If \fIn\fR\(<= 1 then \fIlwork\fR\(>= 1, otherwise \fIlwork\fR=8*\fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, 5\fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the lower triangle (if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR) or the upper triangle (if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR) of \fIA\fR, including the diagonal, is overwritten. 
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The total number of eigenvalues found;
.IP
0 \(<=\fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR. 
.IP
If \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR, and if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, \fIm\fR = \fIiu\fR-\fIil\fR+\fI1\fR.
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevx\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). The first \fIm\fR elements contain the selected eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order.
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevx\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevx\fR. 
.IP
Array \fIz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*) contains eigenvectors. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR columns of \fIz\fR contain the orthonormal eigenvectors of the matrix \fIA\fR corresponding to the selected eigenvalues, with the i-th column of \fIz\fR holding the eigenvector associated with \fIw\fR(i). 
.IP
If an eigenvector fails to converge, then that column of \fIz\fR contains the latest approximation to the eigenvector, and the index of the eigenvector is returned in \fIifail\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
Note: you must ensure that at least max(1,\fIm\fR) columns are supplied in the array \fIz\fR; if \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, the exact value of \fIm\fR is not known in advance and an upper bound must be used.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIlwork\fR > 0, then \fIwork\fR(1) returns the required minimal size of \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then if \fIinfo\fR = 0, the first \fIm\fR elements of \fIifail\fR are zero; if \fIinfo\fR > 0, then \fIifail\fR contains the indices of the eigenvectors that failed to converge. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIifail\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then \fIi\fR eigenvectors failed to converge; their indices are stored in the array \fIifail\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsyevx\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBifail\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvl\fR = \fB-HUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvu\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIvu\fR = \fBHUGE\fR(\fIvl\fR).
.TP 10
\fBil\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIil\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBiu\fR
.NL
Default value for this argument is \fIiu\fR = \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBabstol\fR
.NL
Default value for this element is \fIabstol\fR = \fB0.0\(ulWP\fR.
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIz\fR as follows: \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is present, \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIz\fR is omitted Note that there will be an error condition if \fIifail\fR is present and \fIz\fR is omitted.
.TP 10
\fBrange\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of arguments \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR as follows: \fIrange\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present, \fIrange\fR = \fB\'I\'\fR, if one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present, \fIrange\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, if none of \fIvl\fR, \fIvu\fR, \fIil\fR, \fIiu\fR is present, Note that there will be an error condition if one of or both \fIvl\fR and \fIvu\fR are present and at the same time one of or both \fIil\fR and \fIiu\fR are present.
