.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?syevd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?syevd \- Computes all eigenvalues and (optionally) all eigenvectors of a real symmetric matrix using divide and conquer algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssyevd\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsyevd\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIliwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall syevd\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIw\fR[,\fIjobz\fR] [,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only eigenvalues are computed. 
.IP
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then eigenvalues and eigenvectors are computed.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevd\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, *).
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the array \fIa\fR. 
.IP
Must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevd\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least \fIlwork\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR. 
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
if \fIn\fR\(<= 1, then \fIlwork\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIn\fR > 1, then \fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fIn\fR + 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and \fIn\fR > 1, then \fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fIn\fR**2+ 6*\fIn\fR + 1. 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBliwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBliwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of the array \fIiwork\fR. 
.IP
Constraints: 
.IP
if \fIn\fR\(<= 1, then \fIliwork\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR and \fIn\fR > 1, then \fIliwork\fR\(>= 1; 
.IP
if \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and \fIn\fR > 1, then \fIliwork\fR\(>= 5*\fIn\fR + 3.
.IP
If \fIliwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the required sizes of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, returns these values as the first entries of the \fIwork\fR and \fIiwork\fR arrays, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR or \fIliwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyevd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyevd\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, contains the eigenvalues of the matrix \fIA\fR in ascending order. See also \fIinfo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
If \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then on exit this array is overwritten by the orthogonal matrix \fIZ\fR which contains the eigenvectors of \fIA\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIlwork\fR > 0, then \fIwork(1)\fR returns the required minimal size of \fIlwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR(1)
.NL
On exit, if \fIliwork\fR > 0, then \fIiwork(1)\fR returns the required minimal size of \fIliwork\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, then the algorithm failed to converge; \fIi\fR indicates the number of off-diagonal elements of an intermediate tridiagonal form which did not converge to zero. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, and \fIjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then the algorithm failed to compute an eigenvalue while working on the submatrix lying in rows and columns \fIinfo\fR/(\fIn\fR+1) through mod(\fIinfo\fR,\fIn\fR+1).
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsyevd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBw\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
