.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?syrdb 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?syrdb \- Reduces a real symmetric matrix to tridiagonal form with Successive Bandwidth Reduction approach.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssyrdb\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsyrdb\fR(\fIjobz\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIkd\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIldz\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjobz\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then only \fIA\fR is reduced to \fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is reduced to \fIT\fR and \fIA\fR contains \fIQ\fR on exit.
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is reduced to \fIT\fR and \fIZ\fR contains \fIZ\fR*\fIQ\fR on exit.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBkd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The bandwidth of the banded matrix \fIB\fR (\fIkd\fR\(>= 1).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR,\fBz\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssyrdb\fR.
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsyrdb\fR.
.IP
\fBa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fBa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fBz\fR(\fIldz\fR,*), the second dimension of \fIz\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then the matrix \fIz\fR is multiplied by \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(\fIlwork\fR) is a workspace array.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fBa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldz\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIz\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Not referenced if \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array (\fIlwork\fR\(>= (2\fIkd\fR+1)\fIn\fR+\fIkd\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then overwritten by \fIQ\fR matrix. 
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR, then overwritten by the banded matrix \fIB\fR and details of the orthogonal matrix  \fIQ\fR(\fIB\fR) to reduce \fIA\fR to \fIB\fR as specified by \fBuplo\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBz\fR
.NL
On exit,
.IP
if \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then the matrix \fIz\fR is overwritten by \fIZ\fR*\fIQ\fR. 
.IP
If \fBjobz\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIz\fR is not referenced. 
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fItau\fR(*) stores further details of the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-\fIkd\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR=0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
