.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sysv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sysv \- Computes the solution to the system of linear equations with a real or complex symmetric matrix A and multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssysv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsysv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall csysv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsysv\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sysv\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the upper triangle of  \fIA\fR is stored. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the lower triangle of  \fIA\fR is stored.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; the number of columns in \fIB\fR; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssysv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsysv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsysv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzsysv\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*), \fIwork\fR(*). 
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the upper or the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR (see \fIuplo\fR). The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR). 
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, dimension at least max(1,\fIlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the \fIwork\fR array; \fIlwork\fR\(>= 1.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIa\fR is overwritten by the block-diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR (or \fIL\fR) from the factorization of \fIA\fR as computed by \fB?sytrf\fR.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, \fIb\fR is overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Contains details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR, as determined by \fB?sytrf\fR. 
.IP
If \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR >0, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is a 1-by-1 diagonal block, and the \fIi\fR-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIk\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR-1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR-1, and (\fIi\fR-1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm-\fRth row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fRand \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR+1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR+1, and (\fIi\fR+1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fID\fR is exactly singular, so the solution could not be computed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsysv\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
