.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sytf2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sytf2 \- Computes the factorization of a real/complex symmetric indefinite matrix, using the diagonal pivoting method (unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall ssytf2\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsytf2\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall csytf2\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsytf2\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.
.IP
Specifies whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR is stored
.IP
= \fB\'U\'\fR:  upper triangular
.IP
= \fB\'L\'\fR:  lower triangular
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR. \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssytf2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsytf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsytf2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBzsytf2\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
On entry, the symmetric matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1,\fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
On exit, the block diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR or \fIL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIn\fR). 
.IP
Details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR
.IP
If \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) > 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) are interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR,\fIk\fR) is a 1-by-1 diagonal block. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) = \fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR-1) < 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR-1 and -\fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) are interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR,\fIk\fR) is a 2-by-2 diagonal block. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR( \fIk\fR) = \fIipiv\fR( \fIk\fR+1)< 0, then rows and columns \fIk\fR+1 and -\fIipiv\fR(\fIk\fR) were interchanged and \fID\fR(\fIk\fR:\fIk\fR+1,\fIk:k\fR+1) is a 2-by-2 diagonal block.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
= 0: successful exit
.IP
< 0: if \fIinfo\fR = -\fIk\fR, the \fIk-\fRth argument has an illegal value
.IP
> 0: if \fIinfo\fR = \fIk\fR, \fID\fR(\fIk\fR,\fIk\fR) is exactly zero. The factorization are completed, but the block diagonal matrix \fID\fR is exactly singular, and division by zero will occur if it is used to solve a system of equations.
