.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sytrf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sytrf \- Computes the Bunch-Kaufman factorization of a symmetric matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssytrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsytrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall csytrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zsytrf\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIipiv\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sytrf\fR( \fIa\fR[, \fIuplo\fR] [,\fIipiv\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether the upper or lower triangular part of \fIA\fR is stored and how \fIA\fR is factored: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and \fIA\fR is factored as \fIP*U*D*U\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*P\fR**\fIT\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, the array \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, and  \fIA\fR is factored as \fIP*L*D*L\fR**\fIT\fR\fB*P\fR**\fIT\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The order of matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssytrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsytrf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcsytrf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzsytrf\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR,*). The array \fIa\fR contains either the upper or the lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR (see \fIuplo\fR). The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
Same type as \fIa\fR. A workspace array, dimension at least max(1,\fIlwork\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The size of the \fIwork\fR array (\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR).
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
The upper or lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is overwritten by details of the block-diagonal matrix \fID\fR and the multipliers used to obtain the factor \fIU\fR (or \fIL\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR=0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR). Contains details of the interchanges and the block structure of \fID\fR. If \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) = \fIk\fR >0, then \fId\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is a 1-by-1 block, and the \fIi\fR-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIk\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR-1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR-1, and (\fIi\fR-1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR and \fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR) =\fIipiv\fR(\fIi\fR+1) = -\fIm\fR < 0, then \fID\fR has a 2-by-2 block in rows/columns \fIi\fR and \fIi\fR+1, and (\fIi\fR+1)-th row and column of \fIA\fR was interchanged with the \fIm\fR-th row and column.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, \fBd\fR(\fIi\fR,\fIi\fR) is 0. The factorization has been completed, but \fID\fR is exactly singular. Division by 0 will occur if you use \fID\fR for solving a system of linear equations.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsytrf\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fIn\fR)
.TP 10
\fBipiv\fR
.NL
holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR)
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
