.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?sytrd 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?sytrd \- Reduces a real symmetric matrix to tridiagonal form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall ssytrd\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dsytrd\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fId\fR, \fIe\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall sytrd\fR(\fIa\fR, \fItau\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the upper triangular part of \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, \fIa\fR stores the lower triangular part of \fIA\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssytrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsytrd\fR.
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is an array containing either upper or lower triangular part of the matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array (\fIlwork\fR\(>=\fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the tridiagonal matrix \fIT\fR and details of the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR.
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBssytrd\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdsytrd\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fId\fR(*) contains the diagonal elements of the matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fId\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIe\fR(*) contains the off-diagonal elements of \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIe\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.IP
\fItau\fR(*) stores further details of the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR in the first \fIn\fR-1 elements. \fItau\fR(\fIn\fR) is used as workspace.
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR=0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBsytrd\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBe\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
