.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tgsna 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tgsna \- Estimates reciprocal condition numbers for specified eigenvalues and/or eigenvectors of a pair of matrices in generalized real Schur canonical form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall stgsna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIhowmny\fR, \fIselect\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIldvl\fR, \fIvr\fR, \fIldvr\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIdif\fR, \fImm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtgsna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIhowmny\fR, \fIselect\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIldvl\fR, \fIvr\fR, \fIldvr\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIdif\fR, \fImm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctgsna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIhowmny\fR, \fIselect\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIldvl\fR, \fIvr\fR, \fIldvr\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIdif\fR, \fImm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztgsna\fR(\fIjob\fR, \fIhowmny\fR, \fIselect\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIvl\fR, \fIldvl\fR, \fIvr\fR, \fIldvr\fR, \fIs\fR, \fIdif\fR, \fImm\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall tgsna\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIs\fR] [,\fIdif\fR] [,\fIvl\fR] [,\fIvr\fR] [,\fIselect\fR] [,\fIm\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether condition numbers are required for eigenvalues or eigenvectors. Must be \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, for eigenvalues only (compute \fIs\fR ). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, for eigenvectors only (compute \fIdif\fR ). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, for both eigenvalues and eigenvectors (compute both \fIs\fR and \fIdif\fR).
.TP 10
\fBhowmny\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'A\'\fR or \fB\'S\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR , compute condition numbers for all eigenpairs. 
.IP
If \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR , compute condition numbers for selected eigenpairs specified by the logical array \fIselect\fR.
.TP 10
\fBselect\fR
.NL
\fBLOGICAL\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, \fIselect\fR specifies the eigenpairs for which condition numbers are required. 
.IP
If \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIselect\fR is not referenced.
.IP
\fIFor real flavors\fR:
.IP
To select condition numbers for the eigenpair corresponding to a real eigenvalue omega(\fIj\fR), \fIselect\fR(\fIj\fR) must be set to \fB.TRUE.\fR; to select condition numbers corresponding to a complex conjugate pair of eigenvalues omega(\fIj\fR) and omega(\fIj\fR+1), either \fIselect\fR(\fIj\fR) or \fIselect\fR(\fIj\fR+1) must be set to \fB.TRUE.\fR
.IP
\fIFor complex flavors:\fR
.IP
To select condition numbers for the corresponding \fIj\fR-th eigenvalue and/or eigenvector, \fIselect\fR(\fIj\fR) must be set to \fB.TRUE.\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the square matrix pair (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR) 
.IP
(\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBvl\fR, \fBvr\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsna\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsna\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctgsna\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztgsna\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the upper quasi-triangular (for real flavors) or upper triangular (for complex flavors) matrix \fIA\fR in the pair (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR). 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the upper triangular matrix \fIB\fR in the pair (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR). The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, \fIvl\fR(\fIldvl\fR,*) must contain left eigenvectors of (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR), corresponding to the eigenpairs specified by \fIhowmny\fR and \fIselect\fR. The eigenvectors must be stored in consecutive columns of \fIvl\fR, as returned by \fB?tgevc\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIvl\fR is not referenced. The second dimension of \fIvl\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, \fIvr\fR(\fIldvr\fR,*) must contain right eigenvectors of (\fIA\fR, \fIB\fR), corresponding to the eigenpairs specified by \fIhowmny\fR and \fIselect\fR. The eigenvectors must be stored in consecutive columns of \fIvr\fR, as returned by \fB?tgevc\fR. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIvr\fR is not referenced. The second dimension of \fIvr\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, \fIwork\fR is not referenced.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldvl\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIvl\fR; \fIldvl\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, then \fIldvl\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldvr\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIvr\fR; \fIldvr\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, then \fIldvr\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBmm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of elements in the arrays \fIs\fR and \fIdif\fR (\fImm\fR\(>=\fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The dimension of the array \fIwork\fR.
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, \fIlwork\fR\(>= 2*\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+2)+16 for real flavors, and  \fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, 2*\fIn\fR*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (\fIn\fR+6) for real flavors, and at least (\fIn\fR+2) for complex flavors. 
.IP
If \fIijob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, \fIiwork\fR is not referenced.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fImm\fR ). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, contains the reciprocal condition numbers of the selected eigenvalues, stored in consecutive elements of the array. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIs\fR is not referenced.
.IP
\fIFor real flavors\fR:
.IP
For a complex conjugate pair of eigenvalues two consecutive elements of \fIs\fR are set to the same value. Thus, \fIs\fR(j), \fIdif\fR(j), and the j-th columns of \fIvl\fR and \fIvr\fR all correspond to the same eigenpair (but not in general the j-th eigenpair, unless all eigenpairs are selected).
.TP 10
\fBdif\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fImm\fR ). 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'B\'\fR, contains the estimated reciprocal condition numbers of the selected eigenvectors, stored in consecutive elements of the array. 
.IP
If the eigenvalues cannot be reordered to compute \fIdif\fR(j), \fIdif\fR(j) is set to 0; this can only occur when the true value would be very small anyway. 
.IP
If \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, \fIdif\fR is not referenced.
.IP
\fIFor real flavors\fR:
.IP
For a complex eigenvector, two consecutive elements of \fIdif\fR are set to the same value.
.IP
\fIFor complex flavors\fR:
.IP
For each eigenvalue/vector specified by \fIselect\fR, \fIdif\fR stores a Frobenius norm-based estimate of Difl.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of elements in the arrays \fIs\fR and \fIdif\fR used to store the specified condition numbers; for each selected eigenvalue one element is used. 
.IP
If \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, \fIm\fR is set to \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
\fIwork\fR(1)
.IP
If \fIjob\fR is not \fB\'E\'\fR and \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit, \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtgsna\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBs\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fImm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBdif\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fImm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvl\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIVL\fR of size (\fIn,mm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBvr\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIVR\fR of size (\fIn,mm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBselect\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBhowmny\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIselect\fR as follows: \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'S\'\fR, if \fIselect\fR is present, \fIhowmny\fR = \fB\'A\'\fR, if \fIselect\fR is omitted.
.TP 10
\fBjob\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of arguments \fIs\fR and \fBdif\fR as follows: \fIjob\fR = \fB\'B\'\fR, if both \fIs\fR and \fIdif\fR are present, \fIjob\fR = \fB\'E\'\fR, if \fIs\fR is present and \fIdif\fR omitted, \fIjob\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIs\fR is omitted and \fIdif\fR present, Note that there will be an error condition if both \fIs\fR and \fIdif\fR are omitted.
