.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tgsy2 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tgsy2 \- Solves the generalized Sylvester equation (unblocked algorithm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall stgsy2\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIijob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIldd\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIlde\fR, \fIf\fR, \fIldf\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIrdsum\fR, \fIrdscal\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIpq\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtgsy2\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIijob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIldd\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIlde\fR, \fIf\fR, \fIldf\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIrdsum\fR, \fIrdscal\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIpq\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctgsy2\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIijob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIldd\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIlde\fR, \fIf\fR, \fIldf\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIrdsum\fR, \fIrdscal\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIpq\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztgsy2\fR( \fItrans\fR, \fIijob\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fId\fR, \fIldd\fR, \fIe\fR, \fIlde\fR, \fIf\fR, \fIldf\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIrdsum\fR, \fIrdscal\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIpq\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, solve the generalized Sylvester equation;
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR: solve the \'transposed\' system.
.TP 10
\fBijob\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies what kind of functionality is to be performed. 
.IP
If \fIijob\fR = 0: solve (1) only. 
.IP
If \fIijob\fR = 1: a contribution from this subsystem to a Frobenius norm-based estimate of the separation between two matrix pairs is computed (look ahead strategy is used);
.IP
If \fIijob\fR  = 2: a contribution from this subsystem to a Frobenius norm-based estimate of the separation between two matrix pairs is computed (\fB?gecon\fR on sub-systems is used). 
.IP
Not referenced if \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. On entry, \fIm\fR specifies the order of \fIA\fR and \fID\fR, and the row dimension of \fIC\fR, \fIF\fR, \fIR\fR and \fIL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. On entry, \fIn\fR specifies the order of \fIB\fR and \fIE\fR, and the column dimension of \fIC\fR, \fIF\fR, \fIR\fR and \fIL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR, \fIm\fR) and (\fIldb\fR, \fIn\fR), respectively. On entry, \fIa\fR contains an upper (quasi) triangular matrix \fIA\fR, and \fIb\fR contains an upper (quasi) triangular matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIa\fR. \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The leading dimension of the array \fIb\fR. \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBc\fR, \fBf\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldc\fR, \fIn\fR) and (\fIldf\fR, \fIn\fR), respectively. On entry, \fIc\fR contains the right-hand-side of the first matrix equation in (1), and \fIf\fR contains the right-hand-side of the second matrix equation in (1).
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIc\fR. \fIldc\fR\(>=max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBd\fR, \fBe\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX*16\fR for \fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldd\fR, \fIm\fR) and (\fIlde\fR, \fIn\fR), respectively. On entry, \fId\fR contains an upper triangular matrix \fID\fR, and \fIe\fR contains an upper triangular matrix \fIE\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldd\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fId\fR. \fIldd\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlde\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIe\fR. \fIlde\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldf\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The leading dimension of the array \fIf\fR. \fIldf\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrdsum\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR/\fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR/\fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
On entry, the sum of squares of computed contributions to the Dif-estimate under computation by \fB?tgsyL\fR, where the scaling factor \fIrdscal\fR has been factored out.
.TP 10
\fBrdscal\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR/\fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR/\fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
On entry, scaling factor used to prevent overflow in \fIrdsum\fR.
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Used with real flavors only. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIm\fR+\fIn\fR+2).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIijob\fR = 0, \fIc\fR is overwritten by the solution \fIR\fR.
.TP 10
\fBf\fR
.NL
On exit, if \fIijob\fR = 0, \fIf\fR is overwritten by the solution \fIL\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstgsy2\fR/\fBctgsy2\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtgsy2\fR/\fBztgsy2\fR.
.IP
On exit, 0 \(<= \fIscale\fR \(<= 1. If 0 < \fIscale\fR < 1, the solutions \fIR\fR and \fIL\fR (\fIC\fR and \fIF\fR on entry) hold the solutions to a slightly perturbed system, but the input matrices \fIA\fR, \fIB\fR, \fID\fR and \fIE\fR are not changed. If \fIscale\fR = 0, \fIR\fR and \fIL\fR hold the solutions to the homogeneous system with \fIC\fR = \fIF\fR = 0. Normally \fIscale\fR = 1.
.TP 10
\fBrdsum\fR
.NL
On exit, the corresponding sum of squares updated with the contributions from the current sub-system. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, \fIrdsum\fR is not touched. 
.IP
Note that \fIrdsum\fR only makes sense when \fB?tgsy2\fR is called by \fB?tgsyl\fR.
.TP 10
\fBrdscal\fR
.NL
On exit, \fIrdscal\fR is updated with respect to the current contributions in \fIrdsum\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR , \fIrdscal\fR is not touched. 
.IP
Note that \fIrdscal\fR only makes sense when \fB?tgsy2\fR is called by \fB?tgsyl\fR.
.TP 10
\fBpq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Used with real flavors only. 
.IP
On exit, the number of subsystems (of size 2-by-2, 4-by-4 and 8-by-8) solved by the routine \fBstgsy2\fR/\fBdtgsy2\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. On exit, if \fIinfo\fR is set to
.IP
= 0: Successful exit
.IP
< 0: If \fIinfo\fR = -\fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th argument has an illegal value.
.IP
> 0: The matrix pairs (\fIA\fR, \fID\fR) and (\fIB\fR, \fIE\fR) have common or very close eigenvalues.
