.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tpsv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tpsv \- Solves a system of linear equations whose coefficients are in a triangular packed matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall stpsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtpsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctpsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztpsv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall tpsv\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular:
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the matrix is upper  triangular;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the matrix is low  triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the system of equations:
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'N\' or \'n\', then \fIA\fR*\fIx\fR = \fIb\fR;
.IP
if \fBtrans \fR= \'T\' or \'t\', then \fIA\fR\'*\fIx\fR = \fIb\fR;
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'C\' or \'c\', then conjg(\fIA\fR\')*\fIx\fR = \fIb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular:
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR  then the matrix is unit triangular;
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then the matrix is not unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the order of the matrix \fIA\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstpsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtpsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctpsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztpsv\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least ((\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR + 1))/2). Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the upper triangular matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIa\fR(1, +1), \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIa\fR(1, 2) and \fIa\fR(2, 2) respectively, and so on.
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the array \fIap\fR must contain the lower triangular matrix packed sequentially, column-by-column, so that \fIap\fR(1) contains \fIa\fR(1, +1), \fIap\fR(2) and \fIap\fR(3) contain \fIa\fR(2, +1) and \fIa\fR(3, +1) respectively, and so on.
.IP
When \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the diagonal elements of \fIa\fR are not referenced, but are assumed to be unity.
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstpsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtpsv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctpsv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztpsv\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 + (\fIn\fR - 1)*abs(\fIincx\fR)). Before entry, the incremented array \fIx\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element right-hand side vector \fIb\fR.
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Overwritten with the solution vector \fIx\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtpsv\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the array \fIa\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR.
.IP
The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
