.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tptri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tptri \- Computes the inverse of a triangular matrix using packed storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall stptri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtptri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctptri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztptri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall tptri\fR( \fIa\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIap\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstptri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtptri\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctptri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztptri\fR.
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1,\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.IP
Contains the packed triangular matrix A.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBap\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the packed \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix  inv(\fIA\fR) .
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR is zero, \fIA\fR is singular, and the inversion could not be completed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtptri\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
