.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tptrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tptrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a packed triangular matrix, with multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall stptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztptrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIap\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall tptrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fBA*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIap\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; the number of rows in \fIB\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstptrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtptrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctptrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztptrs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIap\fR(*), \fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). The array \fIap\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR in 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the system of equations. The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtptrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
