.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trbr2d 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trbr2d \- Receives and participates in a broadcast along a scope for a trapezoidal matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBcall itrbr2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrsrc\fR, \fIcsrc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall strbr2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrsrc\fR, \fIcsrc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrbr2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrsrc\fR, \fIcsrc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrbr2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrsrc\fR, \fIcsrc\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrbr2d\fR( \fIicontxt\fR, \fIscope\fR, \fItop\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIrsrc\fR, \fIcsrc\fR)
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBicontxt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  Integer handle that indicates the context.
.TP 10
\fBscope\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Indicates what scope the broadcast should proceed on. Limited to \'Row\', \'Column\', or \'All\'.
.TP 10
\fBtop\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Indicates the communication pattern to use for the broadcast.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR, \fBdiag\fR, \fBm\fR, \fBn\fR,  \fBlda\fR
.NL
Describe the matrix to be sent. See Matrix Shapes for details.
.TP 10
\fBrsrc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process row coordinate of the process that called broadcast/send. 
.TP 10
\fBcsrc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
The process column coordinate of the process that called broadcast/send.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
An array of dimension (\fBlda\fR,\fBn\fR) to receive the incoming message into.
