.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trexc 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trexc \- Reorders the Schur factorization of a general matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strexc\fR(\fIcompq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIifst\fR, \fIilst\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrexc\fR(\fIcompq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIifst\fR, \fIilst\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrexc\fR(\fIcompq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIifst\fR, \fIilst\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrexc\fR(\fIcompq\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIt\fR, \fIldt\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIifst\fR, \fIilst\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trexc\fR(\fIt\fR, \fIifst\fR, \fIilst\fR[,\fIq\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBcompq\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'V\'\fR or \fB\'N\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then the Schur vectors (\fIQ\fR) are updated. 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then no Schur vectors are updated.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIT\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0).
.TP 10
\fBt\fR, \fBq\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrexc\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrexc\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrexc\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrexc\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIt\fR(\fIldt\fR,*) contains the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix \fIT\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIt\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIq\fR(\fIldq\fR,*) 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIq\fR must contain \fIQ\fR (Schur vectors). 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIq\fR is not referenced.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR) 
.IP
if \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR and at least 1 if \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldt\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIt\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIq\fR; 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIldq\fR\(>= 1. 
.IP
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, then \fIldq\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBifst\fR, \fBilst\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 1 \(<=\fIifst\fR\(<=\fIn\fR; 1 \(<=\fIilst\fR\(<=\fIn\fR. 
.IP
Must specify the reordering of the diagonal elements (or blocks, which is possible for real flavors) of the matrix \fIT\fR. The element (or block) with row index \fIifst\fR is moved to row \fIilst\fR by a sequence of exchanges between adjacent elements (or blocks).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrexc\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrexc\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIn\fR). 
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBt\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the updated matrix \fIS\fR.
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
If \fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, \fIq\fR contains the updated matrix of Schur vectors.
.TP 10
\fBifst\fR, \fBilst\fR
.NL
Overwritten for real flavors only. 
.IP
If \fIifst\fR pointed to the second row of a 2 by 2 block on entry, it is changed to point to the first row; \fIilst\fR always points to the first row of the block in its final position (which may differ from its input value by \(+-1).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrexc\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBt\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIT\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIQ\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBcompq\fR
.NL
Restored based on the presence of the argument \fIq\fR as follows: 
.IP
\fIcompq\fR = \fB\'V\'\fR, if \fIq\fR is present, 
.IP
\fIcompq\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, if \fIq\fR is omitted.
