.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trmm 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trmm \- Computes a scalar-matrix-matrix product (one matrix operand is triangular).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strmm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fItransa\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrmm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fItransa\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrmm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fItransa\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrmm\fR(\fIside\fR, \fIuplo\fR, \fItransa\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIalpha\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trmm\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIside\fR] [, \fIuplo\fR] [,\fItransa\fR][,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIalpha\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether op(\fIA\fR) appears on the left or right of  \fIB\fR in the operation:
.IP
if \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then \fIB\fR := \fIalpha\fR*op(\fIA\fR)*\fIB\fR;
.IP
if \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR or \fB\'r\'\fR, then  \fIB\fR := \fIalpha\fR*\fIB\fR*op(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular:
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the matrix is upper  triangular;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the matrix is low  triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtransa\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the form of op(\fIA\fR) used in the matrix multiplication:
.IP
if \fBtransa\fR = \'N\' or \'n\', then op(\fIA\fR) = \fIA\fR;
.IP
if \fBtransa \fR= \'T\' or \'t\', then op(\fIA\fR) = \fIA\fR\';
.IP
if \fBtransa\fR = \'C\' or \'c\', then op(\fIA\fR) = conjg(\fIA\fR\').
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular:
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR  then the matrix is unit triangular;
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then the matrix is not unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of rows of \fIB\fR. The value of \fIm\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the number of columns of \fIB\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrmm\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrmm\fR
.IP
Specifies the scalar \fIalpha\fR.
.IP
When \fIalpha\fR is zero, then \fIa\fR is not referenced and \fIb\fR need not be set before entry.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrmm\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrmm\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIlda\fR,\fIk\fR), where \fIk\fR is \fIm\fR when \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR and is \fIn\fR when \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR or \fB\'r\'\fR. Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIk\fR by \fIk\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the upper triangular matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. 
.IP
Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIk\fR by \fIk\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the lower triangular matrix and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.IP
When \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the diagonal elements of \fIa\fR are not referenced either, but are assumed to be unity.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIa\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. When \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR), when \fIside\fR = \fB\'R\'\fR or \fB\'r\'\fR, then \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrmm\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrmm\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrmm\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR (\fIldb\fR,\fIn\fR).
.IP
Before entry, the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR part of the array \fIb\fR must contain the matrix \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIb\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIldb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the transformed matrix.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrmm\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIk\fR,\fIk\fR) where 
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIm\fR if \fIside\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIn\fR otherwise.
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIm\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBside\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'R\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'L\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtransa\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR.
.IP
The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBalpha\fR
.NL
The default value is 1.
