.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trmv 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trmv \- Computes a matrix-vector product using a triangular matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strmv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrmv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrmv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrmv\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIincx\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trmv\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular:
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, then the matrix is upper  triangular;
.IP
if \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, then the matrix is low  triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies the operation:
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'N\' or \'n\', then \fIx\fR := \fIA\fR*\fIx\fR;
.IP
if \fBtrans \fR= \'T\' or \'t\', then \fIx\fR := \fIA\fR\'*\fIx\fR;
.IP
if \fBtrans\fR = \'C\' or \'c\', then \fIx\fR := conjg(\fIA\fR\')*\fIx\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Specifies whether the matrix \fIA\fR is unit triangular:
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR  then the matrix is unit triangular;
.IP
if \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'n\'\fR, then the matrix is not unit triangular.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the order of the matrix \fIA\fR. The value of \fIn\fR must be at least zero.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrmv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrmv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrmv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrmv\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fIlda\fR,\fIn\fR). Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the upper triangular matrix and the strictly lower triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced. Before entry with \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR or \fB\'l\'\fR, the leading \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR lower triangular part of the array \fIa\fR must contain the lower triangular matrix and the strictly upper triangular part of \fIa\fR is not referenced.
.IP
When \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'u\'\fR, the diagonal elements of \fIa\fR are not referenced either, but are assumed to be unity.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the first dimension of \fIa\fR as declared in the calling (sub)program. The value of \fIlda\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrmv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrmv\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrmv\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrmv\fR
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least (1 + (\fIn\fR - 1)*abs(\fIincx\fR)). Before entry, the incremented array \fIx\fR must contain the \fIn\fR-element vector \fIx\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBincx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Specifies the increment for the elements of \fIx\fR.
.IP
The value of \fIincx\fR must not be zero.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Overwritten with the transformed vector \fIx\fR.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77   counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95 Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrmv\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fI\fIA\fR\fRof size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR.
.IP
The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
