.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trrfs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trrfs \- Estimates the error in the solution of a system of linear equations with a triangular matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIiwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrrfs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIx\fR, \fIldx\fR, \fIferr\fR, \fIberr\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIrwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trrfs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIx\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fItrans\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIferr\fR] [,\fIberr\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates the form of the equations:
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, the system has the form \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, the system has the form  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBx\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrrfs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrrfs\fR.
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the upper or lower triangular matrix \fIA\fR, as specified by \fIuplo\fR.
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the right-hand side matrix \fIB\fR.
.IP
\fIx\fR(\fIldx\fR,*) contains the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.IP
\fIwork\fR(*) is a workspace array.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR); the second dimension of \fIb\fR and \fIx\fR must be at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR); the dimension of \fIwork\fR must be at least max(1,3*\fIn\fR) for real flavors and max(1,2*\fIn\fR) for complex flavors.
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldx\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIx\fR; \fIldx\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBiwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBrwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBctrrfs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBztrrfs\fR. 
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBferr\fR, \fBberr\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double precision flavors. 
.IP
Arrays, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fInrhs\fR). Contain the component-wise forward and backward errors, respectively, for each solution vector.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi-\fRth parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrrfs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBx\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIX\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBferr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBberr\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
