.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trsyl 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trsyl \- Solves Sylvester equation for real quasi-triangular or complex triangular matrices.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strsyl\fR(\fItrana\fR, \fItranb\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrsyl\fR(\fItrana\fR, \fItranb\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrsyl\fR(\fItrana\fR, \fItranb\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrsyl\fR(\fItrana\fR, \fItranb\fR, \fIisgn\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIldc\fR, \fIscale\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trsyl\fR(\fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR, \fIscale\fR[, \fItrana\fR] [,\fItranb\fR] [,\fIisgn\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBtrana\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrana\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then op(\fIA\fR) = \fIA\fR. 
.IP
If \fItrana\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then op(\fIA\fR) = \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR (real flavors only). 
.IP
If \fItrana\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR then op(\fIA\fR) = \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtranb\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fItranb\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR , then op(\fIB\fR) = \fIB\fR. 
.IP
If \fItranb\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then op(\fIB\fR) = \fIB\fR**\fIT\fR (real flavors only). 
.IP
If \fItranb\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then op(\fIB\fR) = \fIB\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBisgn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. Indicates the form of the Sylvester equation. 
.IP
If \fIisgn\fR = +1, op(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR + \fIX\fR*op(\fIB\fR) = alpha*\fIC\fR. 
.IP
If \fIisgn\fR = -1, op(\fIA\fR)*\fIX\fR - \fIX\fR*op(\fIB\fR) = alpha*\fIC\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR, and the number of rows in \fIX\fR and \fIC\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIB\fR, and the number of columns in \fIX\fR and \fIC\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBc\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrsyl\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrsyl\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrsyl\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrsyl\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
\fIb\fR(\fIldb\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIB\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIb\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIc\fR(\fIldc\fR,*) contains the matrix \fIC\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIc\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIb\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldc\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIc\fR; at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBscale\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for single-precision flavors
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for double-precision flavors. 
.IP
The value of the scale factor \(*a.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful.
.TP 10
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.TP 10
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 1, \fIA\fR and \fIB\fR have common or close eigenvalues perturbed values were used to solve the equation.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrsyl\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,m\fR).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBc\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIC\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtrana\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtranb\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBisgn\fR
.NL
Must be +1 or -1. The default value is +1.
