.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trtrs 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trtrs \- Solves a system of linear equations with a triangular matrix, with multiple right-hand sides.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrtrs\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fItrans\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIldb\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trtrs\fR( \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [, \fItrans\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'T\'\fR or \fB\'C\'\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'T\'\fR, then \fIA\fR**\fIT\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.IP
If \fItrans\fR = \fB\'C\'\fR, then  \fIA\fR**\fIH\fR\fI*X\fR = \fIB\fR is solved for \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix. 
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of \fIA\fR; the number of rows in \fIB\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0. 
.TP 10
\fBnrhs\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The number of right-hand sides; \fInrhs\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrtrs\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrtrs\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*),\fI b\fR(\fIldb\fR,*). 
.IP
The array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The array \fIb\fR contains the matrix \fIB\fR whose columns are the right-hand sides for the systems of equations.
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR), the second dimension of \fIb\fR at least max(1,\fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBldb\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIb\fR; \fIldb\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the solution matrix \fIX\fR.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. If \fIinfo\fR=0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrtrs\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR*(\fIn\fR+1)/2).
.TP 10
\fBb\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIB\fR of size (\fIn\fR, \fInrhs\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBtrans\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR, \fB\'C\'\fR, or \fB\'T\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
