.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?trtri 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?trtri \- Computes the inverse of a triangular matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall strtri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtrtri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctrtri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztrtri\fR( \fIuplo\fR, \fIdiag\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall trtri\fR( \fIa\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIdiag\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR] )
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR.
.IP
Indicates whether \fIA\fR is upper or lower triangular: 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is upper triangular. 
.IP
If \fIuplo\fR = \fB\'L\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is lower triangular.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR.  Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'N\'\fR, then \fIA\fR is not a unit triangular matrix.
.IP
If \fIdiag\fR = \fB\'U\'\fR, \fIA\fR is unit triangular: diagonal elements of \fIA\fR are assumed to be 1 and not referenced in the array \fIa\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIA\fR; \fIn\fR\(>= 0.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstrtri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtrtri\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctrtri\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztrtri\fR.
.IP
Array: \fBDIMENSION\fR(\fI\fR,*).
.IP
Contains the matrix \fIA\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR.  The first dimension of \fIa\fR; \fIlda\fR\(>= max(1, \fIn\fR).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the \fIn\fR-by-\fIn\fR matrix inv(\fIA\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fIi\fR, the \fIi\fR-th diagonal element of \fIA\fR is zero, \fIA\fR is singular, and the inversion could not be completed.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77  counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or reconstructible arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtrtri\fR interface are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIn\fR,\fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBdiag\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'N\'\fR or \fB\'U\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'N\'\fR.
