.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?tzrzf 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?tzrzf \- Reduces the upper trapezoidal matrix A to upper triangular form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall stzrzf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall dtzrzf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ctzrzf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall ztzrzf\fR(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall tzrzf\fR(\fIa\fR[, \fItau\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of rows in the matrix \fIA\fR (\fIm\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of columns in \fIA\fR (\fIn\fR\(>=\fIm\fR). 
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztzrzf\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: \fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,\fB*),\fR\fIwork\fR(\fIlwork\fR\fB).\fRThe leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIn\fR upper trapezoidal part of the array \fIa\fR contains the matrix \fIA\fR to be factorized. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.IP
\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array;
.IP
\fIlwork\fR\(>= max(1, \fIm\fR).
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten on exit by the factorization data as follows:
.IP
the leading \fIm\fR-by-\fIm\fR upper triangular part of \fIa\fR contains the upper triangular matrix \fIR\fR, and elements \fIm\fR +1 to \fIn\fR of the first \fIm\fR rows of \fIa\fR, with the array \fItau\fR, represent the orthogonal matrix \fIZ\fR as a product of \fIm\fR elementary reflectors.
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBREAL\fR for \fBstzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE PRECISION\fR for \fBdtzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBctzrzf\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBztzrzf\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max (1, \fIm\fR). Contains scalar factors of the elementary reflectors for the matrix \fIZ\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBtzrzf\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIm\fR).
