.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?ungbr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?ungbr \- Generates the complex unitary matrix Q or P determined by \fB?gebrd\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall cungbr\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zungbr\fR(\fIvect\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIlda\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIlwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall ungbr\fR(\fIa\fR, \fItau\fR[,\fIvect\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'Q\'\fR or \fB\'P\'\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, the routine generates the matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, the routine generates the matrix \fIP\fR**\fIH\fR.
.TP 10
\fBm\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of required rows of \fIQ\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIH\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The number of required columns of \fIQ\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIH\fR. 
.TP 10
\fBk\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. One of the dimensions of \fIA\fR in \fB?gebrd\fR:
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, the number of columns in \fIA\fR;
.IP
If \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, the number of rows in \fIA\fR.
.IP
Constraints: \fIm\fR\(>= 0, \fIn\fR\(>= 0, \fIk\fR\(>= 0. 
.IP
For \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR: \fIk\fR\(<=\fIn\fR\(<=\fIm\fR if \fIm\fR > \fIk\fR, or \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR if \fIm\fR\(<=\fIk\fR. 
.IP
For \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR: \fIk\fR\(<=\fIm\fR\(<=\fIn\fR if \fIn\fR > \fIk\fR, or \fIm\fR = \fIn\fR if \fIn\fR\(<=\fIk\fR.
.TP 10
\fBa\fR, \fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcungbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzungbr\fR. 
.IP
Arrays: 
.IP
\fIa\fR(\fIlda\fR,*) is the array \fIa\fR as returned by \fB?gebrd\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIa\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).\fIwork\fR is a workspace array, its dimension max(1, \fBlwork\fR).
.TP 10
\fBlda\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of \fIa\fR; at least max(1, \fIm\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcungbr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzungbr\fR. 
.IP
For \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, the array \fItauq\fR as returned by \fB?gebrd\fR. For \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, the array \fItaup\fR as returned by \fB?gebrd\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIk\fR)) for \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR, or max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIk\fR)) for \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBlwork\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The size of the \fIwork\fR array. 
.IP
Constraint: \fIlwork\fR < max(1, min(\fIm\fR, \fIn\fR)). 
.IP
If \fIlwork\fR = -1, then a workspace query is assumed; the routine only calculates the optimal size of the \fIwork\fR array, returns this value as the first entry of the \fIwork\fR array, and no error message related to \fIlwork\fR is issued by \fBxerbla\fR.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Overwritten by the orthogonal matrix \fIQ\fR or \fIP\fR**\fIT\fR (or the leading rows or columns thereof) as specified by \fIvect\fR, \fIm\fR, and \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR(1)
.NL
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, on exit \fIwork\fR(1) contains the minimum value of \fIlwork\fR required for optimum performance. Use this \fIlwork\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBungbr\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIA\fR of size (\fIm,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length min(\fIm,k\fR) where
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIm\fR, if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'P\'\fR, 
.IP
\fIk\fR = \fIn\fR, if \fIvect\fR = \fB\'Q\'\fR.
.TP 10
\fBvect\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'Q\'\fR or \fB\'P\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'Q\'\fR.
