.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH UniformBits 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
UniformBits \- Generates integer random values with uniform bit distribution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ! Fortran
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBvirnguniformbits\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR)
.PP
.B /* C */
.PP
\fIstatus\fR= \fBviRngUniformBits\fR( \fImethod\fR, \fIstream\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIr\fR);
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBmethod\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Generation method; dummy and set to 0. The specific value is as follows: 
.br
VSL\(ulMETHOD\(ulIUNIFORMBITS\(ulSTD
.br
.br
\h\'1\'Standard method. Currently there is only one method for this distribution generator.
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBstream\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBTYPE (VSL\(ulSTREAM\(ulSTATE)\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBVSLStreamStatePtr\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: Descriptor of the stream state structure.
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'Pointer to the stream state structure
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBn\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(IN)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBint\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'1\'Number of random values to be generated
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PP
.SB Name
.br
\h\'1\'\fBr\fR
.br
.SB Type
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: \fBINTEGER\fR, \fBINTENT(OUT)\fR
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'\fBunsigned int*\fR
.br
.SB Description
.br
\h\'2\'FORTRAN: Vector of \fIn\fR random integer numbers. If the \fIstream\fR was generated by a 64 or a 128-bit generator, each integer value is represented by two or four elements of \fIr\fR respectively. The number of bytes occupied by each integer is contained in the field \fIwordsize\fR of the structure \fBVSL\(ulBRNG\(ulPROPERTIES\fR. The total number of bits that are actually used to store the value are contained in the field \fInbits\fR of the same structure. 
.br
\h\'2\'C:\h\'7\'Vector of  \fIn\fR random integer numbers. If the  \fIstream\fR was generated by a 64 or a 128-bit generator, each integer value is represented by two or four elements of \fIr\fR respectively. The number of bytes occupied by each integer is contained in the field \fIWordSize\fR of the structure \fBVSLBRngProperties\fR. The total number of bits that are actually used to store the value are contained in the field \fINBits\fR of the same structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP

.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulOK, VSL\(ulSTATUS\(ulOK\fR
.NL
Indicates no error, execution is successful.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNULL\(ulPTR\fR
.NL
\fBstream\fR is a \fBNULL\fR pointer.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulSTREAM\fR
.NL
\fIstream\fR is not a valid random stream.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulBAD\(ulUPDATE\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns an invalid number of updated entries in a buffer, that is, < 0 or > \fBnmax\fR.
.TP 10
\fBVSL\(ulERROR\(ulNO\(ulNUMBERS\fR
.NL
Callback function for an abstract BRNG returns 0 as the number of updated entries in a buffer.
