.\" Copyright (c) 2002 \- 2008 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH ?upgtr 3 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2002 \- 2008" "Intel(R) Math Kernel Library"
.SH NAME
?upgtr \- Generates the complex unitary matrix Q determined by \fB?hptrd\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B Fortran 77
.PP
\fBcall cupgtr\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
\fBcall zupgtr\fR(\fIuplo\fR, \fIn\fR, \fIap\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIq\fR, \fIldq\fR, \fIwork\fR, \fIinfo\fR)
.PP
.B Fortran 95
.PP
\fBcall upgtr\fR(\fIa\fR, \fItau\fR, \fIq\fR[,\fIuplo\fR] [,\fIinfo\fR])
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
\fBCHARACTER*1\fR. Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. Use the same \fIuplo\fR as supplied to \fB?hptrd\fR.
.TP 10
\fBn\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The order of the matrix \fIQ\fR (\fIn\fR\(>= 0). 
.TP 10
\fBap\fR, \fBtau\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcupgtr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzupgtr\fR.
.IP
Arrays \fIap\fR and \fItau\fR, as returned by \fB?hptrd\fR. 
.IP
The dimension of \fIap\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR(\fIn\fR+1)/2). 
.IP
The dimension of \fItau\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.TP 10
\fBldq\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. The first dimension of the output array \fIq\fR; 
.IP
at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBwork\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcupgtr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzupgtr\fR.
.IP
Workspace array, \fBDIMENSION\fR at least max(1, \fIn\fR-1).
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS

.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
\fBCOMPLEX\fR for \fBcupgtr\fR
.IP
\fBDOUBLE COMPLEX\fR for \fBzupgtr\fR. 
.IP
Array, \fBDIMENSION\fR\fI\fR(\fIldq\fR,*). 
.IP
Contains the computed matrix \fIQ\fR. 
.IP
The second dimension of \fIq\fR must be at least max(1, \fIn\fR).
.TP 10
\fBinfo\fR
.NL
\fBINTEGER\fR. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = 0, the execution is successful. 
.IP
If \fIinfo\fR = \fI-i\fR, the \fIi\fR-th parameter had an illegal value.
.SH FORTRAN 95 INTERFACE NOTES
.PP
.PP
Routines in Fortran 95 interface have fewer arguments in the calling sequence than their Fortran 77 counterparts. For general conventions applied to skip redundant or restorable arguments, see Fortran 95  Interface Conventions.
.PP
Specific details for the routine \fBupgtr\fR interface are the following:
.TP 10
\fBa\fR
.NL
Stands for argument \fIap\fR in Fortan 77 interface. Holds the array \fIA\fR of size (\fIn*(n+1)/2\fR).
.TP 10
\fBtau\fR
.NL
Holds the vector of length (\fIn-\fR1).
.TP 10
\fBq\fR
.NL
Holds the matrix \fIQ\fR of size (\fIn,n\fR).
.TP 10
\fBuplo\fR
.NL
Must be \fB\'U\'\fR or \fB\'L\'\fR. The default value is \fB\'U\'\fR.
